# Manual Construct 3  Parte 24 (líneas 2760128800)

## Resumen
- If text is being written out with the Typewriter text action, force it to finish immediately. (línea 11)
- Sprite font expressions (línea 13)
- CharacterHeight (línea 14)
- Return the sprite font cell height. (línea 16)
- CharacterScale (línea 17)
- CharacterSpacing (línea 18)
- LineHeight (línea 19)
- Return the corresponding object properties. For more information, see Sprite font properties. (línea 21)
- CharacterWidth(char) (línea 22)
- Return the width of a character. A character must be passed (as a string) so the Spacing data (línea 24)
- or Set character width action can be taken in to account. Since the expression can only return (línea 25)
- one value, if there are multiple characters in the string, only the first is used. (línea 26)
- Text (línea 27)
- PlainText (línea 30)
- included), but the PlainText expression will return just Hello . (línea 34)
- TagAtPosition(x, y) (línea 36)
- Look up the tag for a part of the text at a given position and return the tag if any, else return (línea 38)
- an empty string if no tag is specified. For example if the text has the BBcode Hello (línea 39)
- TagCount(tag) (línea 42)
- TagX(tag, index) (línea 43)

## Contenido

Page 787 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If text is being written out with the Typewriter text action, force it to finish immediately.

Sprite font expressions
CharacterHeight

Return the sprite font cell height.
CharacterScale
CharacterSpacing
LineHeight

Return the corresponding object properties. For more information, see Sprite font properties.
CharacterWidth(char)

Return the width of a character. A character must be passed (as a string) so the Spacing data
or Set character width action can be taken in to account. Since the expression can only return
one value, if there are multiple characters in the string, only the first is used.
Text

Return the object's current text.
PlainText

Return a string containing the object's current text, with any BBCode tags stripped out. For
example if the text is [b]Hello[/b] , the Text expression will return that (with BBCode tags
included), but the PlainText expression will return just Hello .

TagAtPosition(x, y)

Look up the tag for a part of the text at a given position and return the tag if any, else return
an empty string if no tag is specified. For example if the text has the BBcode Hello
[tag=mytag]world[/tag] , then the tag at a position over the word "world" is "mytag", and the
tag at a position over the word "Hello" is "" (an empty string).
TagCount(tag)
TagX(tag, index)
TagY(tag, index)
TagWidth(tag, index)
TagHeight(tag, index)

Page 788 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Identify the size and position of all ranges of the text with a given tag. Note the count and the
index actually refers to fragments, as a single tagged range may be broken up in to multiple
pieces - see the section Tagged range fragmentation in the Text object manual entry for more
details (as fragmentation works the same for both SpriteFont and Text objects).
TextWidth
TextHeight

Return the size of the actual text content within the Sprite Font object's rectangle.

Page 789 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SVG PICTURE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/svg-picture

The SVG Picture object can display a Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) file in your project.
SVG Picture currently does not support animations and only shows a static image.
Animated SVGs can be displayed with the HTML Element object.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ISVGPictureInstance script interface.

Importing an SVG image
The easiest way to add an SVG file you your project is to drag-and-drop an SVG file in to the
Layout View. This will automatically import the SVG file as a project file, create an SVG Picture
object, and set the SVG Picture to display the imported file.
Alternatively you can follow this process manually:
1

Import the SVG file as a project file

2

Create an SVG Picture object

3

Set the SVG file property to the imported SVG file

Other ways to use SVG
You can also import SVG files in the Animations Editor for use in other objects like Sprite. This
will rasterize them, which means converting them to a bitmap image at a fixed size. This loses
some of the benefits of scaling SVGs, but allows them to be used in other objects, including as a
part of Sprite animations, and provides other features such as customizing the collision polygon.

SVG Picture properties
SVG file

Choose the SVG file to display. The SVG file must have been imported as a project file in the
Files folder.
Image

Page 790 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

When an SVG file is selected, the View link provides a shortcut to preview or edit it. This is
the same view you get when double-clicking the SVG file in the Project Bar.
Initially visible

Choose whether the object is shown (visible) or hidden (invisible) when the layout starts.
Origin

Choose the position of the origin of the object relative to its unrotated bounding rectangle.

SVG Picture conditions
SVG Picture does not have any of its own conditions. For conditions in common to other objects,
see Common conditions.

SVG Picture actions
Set image
Set image (by name)

Set the SVG file being displayed by the object, either by a dropdown list or by an expression
of the filename.

SVG Picture conditions
SVG Picture does not have any of its own expressions. For expressions in common to other
objects, see Common expressions.

Page 791 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TEXT
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/text

The Text object can display text using a font in your project. Note that there are not many built-in
fonts common to all computers. Instead you can import web fonts for use with the Text object.
Note the Text object is used for displaying text only. Don't confuse it with the Text input object,
which is a form control used for entering text in to.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ITextInstance script interface.

Using web fonts
Follow these steps to use a custom web font in the Text object.
1

Locate a web font to use, in WOFF or WOFF2 format. There are some web services that list web
fonts. (Be sure to check the web font license to ensure you use it correctly.)
Be sure to use WOFF or WOFF2 format fonts, as these are the only formats that work
consistently across all platforms. If you use other formats like TTF or OTF, they may appear
to work, but then stop working when you export your project to a different platform.

2

Download the .woff or .woff2 file for the web font.

3

In the Project Bar, right-click the Fonts folder and select Import fonts.

4

Import the .woff or .woff2 file you downloaded previously. This will add the web font file as a
project file.

5

Select a Text object in the Layout View, and click the button next to the Font property in the
Properties Bar.

6

In the Font Picker dialog, pick the web font you imported from the second drop-down list (under
Or pick a web font from this project), and click OK.

The Text object will now be displaying the custom web font in the Layout View. Since the web
font is bundled with your project, it will be available on any platform.
Note: the Free Edition of Construct is limited to only importing one web font.

Text rendering
Page 792 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The Text object does not display anything if its bounding rectangle is too small to fit a single
letter of text. If text objects appear to go invisible, try resizing them larger.
Different browsers render text in different ways. This means you should expect the appearance
of the Text object to vary slightly across browsers. You should test your project in a range of
browsers to ensure text objects display how you intend for all users. For more information see
Best practices.

Using BBCode
By default the Text object allows the use of BBCode, a simple way of marking up text for
formatting like bold and italic. If you don't want such tags to affect the formatting of the text, you
can opt-out of it by unchecking the Enable BBCode property.
BBCode uses "tags" in square brackets to mark the start and end of formatting. For example to
make a word bold, wrap it in [b] and [/b] , e.g. [b]Hello[/b] . Some tags take a parameter,
such as the font name to use, which is specified after an equals sign in the opening tag, e.g.
[font=Arial]Hello[/font] .
The following tags are supported:
[b]bold text[/b]
[i]italic text[/i]
[u]underline text[/u]
[s]strikethrough text[/s]
[size=20]change font size (in pt)[/size]
[font=Arial]change font face[/font]

- you can also use any web font imported to the

project.
- the color can be specified in the same way
CSS colors are specified, e.g. hexadecimal, using rgb() , etc.
[color=#ff0000]change text color[/color]

[opacity=50]change text opacity[/opacity]
[hide]invisible text[/hide]

- this is useful for flashing effects, since the text still takes up

the same width while invisible
[background=#ff0000]change background color[/background]

and [offsety=10]offset Y[/offsety] - move text by a
number of pixels on each axis, useful for animated effects. The offset can optionally also be
specified as a percentage of the line height, e.g. [offsety=50%] means offset downwards by
half the line height.
[offsetx=10]offset X[/offsetx]

[stroke]stroke text[/stroke] , drawing an outline rather than a solid fill
[outline=#ff0000]outlined text (on top)[/outline] , which adds an outline with a different

color drawn on top of the text (as opposed to stroke, which removes the fill)
Page 793 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

[outlineback=#ff0000]outlined text (underneath)[/outline] , which adds an outline with a

different color drawn behind the text. This variant can look better with very thick outlines.
[lineThickness=2]change line thickness[/lineThickness] , affecting the line thickness used

for stroke, outline, strikethrough and underline
or [icon=tag] - insert an icon to the text. The icons are taken from the animation
frames of a Sprite object set in the Icon set property. The icon can be referred to by its zerobased frame index, or by the Tag property of the animation frame.
[icon=0]

- change the vertical alignment of any icons
between the tags. A percentage uses an amount relative to the line height. This is relative to
the alphabetic baseline, so a value of 0 will align the bottom of the icon with the bottom of
the character 'x'. The default icon offset Y is 20% so icons are normally aligned slightly below
the alphabetic baseline.
[iconoffsety=50%]icon offset Y[/iconoffsety]

[tag=mytag]tag a range of text[/tag] , assigns the tag "mytag" to a range of text, which

can then be referred to in events (e.g. the Has tag at position condition, or expressions to get
its size and position). Note see the section Tagged range fragmentation below for more
details.
does not change the text style, but inserts the given text
separately to the rest of the string. This is useful when inserting right-to-left (RTL) text in to
left-to-right (LTR) strings: normally RTL text inside an LTR string may change the direction of
other text in the string, but if you put the RTL text inside these tags, it will ensure it does not
change the direction of any text outside of the tags. It will also prevent other text merging
features, such as kerning and ligatures, across the tag boundary.
[insert]inserted text[/insert]

See the Text formatting example for a demonstration of the various formatting tags, and the
Icons in text example for a demonstration of using icon tags.

Tagged range fragmentation
This section also applies to the Sprite Font object.
As noted above, certain ranges of text can be tagged, e.g.:
The [tag=mytag]quick brown fox[/tag] jumps over the lazy dog

This will assign the tag "mytag" to the words "quick brown fox". This works straightforwardly with
the Has tag at position condition and TagAtPosition expression. However when accessing the
size and position of the tag with the TagCount, TagX etc. expressions, the tagged range can in
fact be split in to multiple fragments. There are two reasons this can happen:
1

Word wrap - if the tagged range is broken across two or more lines

2

Changing styles within the tagged range

Page 794 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

In the normal case you may expect the above tagged range to count as a single tag with a single
size and position. However it may be broken across lines by word wrap, such as shown below:
The quick brown
fox jumps over
the lazy dog

Notice how the tagged range is now in two separate places across two lines: the first line having
"quick brown", and the second line having "fox". Each of the two parts is referred to as a
fragment. There are now two positions and two sizes for the two fragments that the tagged
range was broken in to. Therefore TagCount("mytag") will return 2. The other expressions to
retrieve the size and position of the tagged range will return each of the fragments separately,
identified by the index parameter. Note that long tagged ranges could be broken across three or
even more lines, further increasing the number of fragments.
Changing the style of text also fragments the text. For example consider the following BBcode:
The [tag=mytag]quick [b]brown[/b] fox[/tag] jumps over the lazy dog

Now inside the tagged range, just the word "brown" is made bold. This also fragments the tagged
range, this time in to three fragments: the first with "quick " (including a space), the second
"brown" in bold, and the third " fox" (including a space). This time TagCount("mytag") will return 3
and each fragment's size and position will be returned separately based on the index parameter.

Text properties
Text

The text for the object to initially be showing.
Enable BBCode

Whether to enable the use of BBCode formatting in the text. See above for a list of allowed
tags. If disabled, any BBCode tags will simply be displayed as plain text.
Font

The font the text object uses to display its text. Click the button to the right of the font name
to open a font picker dialog.
You may see a permission prompt to access the full list of fonts installed on your
system.
Remember local fonts may not be available on other devices - consider using a web font, as
described in Using web fonts above.
Size

Page 795 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The size of the text to display, in points (pt).
Line height

Amount to change the space between each line of text, in pixels. Use 0 for the default
amount, -5 for 5 pixels shorter than default, 10 for 10 pixels taller than default, and so on.
Bold

Whether to use the bold variant of the font, if available.
Italic

Whether to use the italic variant of the font, if available.
Color

Choose the color of the text object's text.
Horizontal alignment

Choose whether the text displays left, center or right aligned within its bounding rectangle.
Vertical alignment

Choose whether the text displays top, center or bottom aligned within its bounding rectangle.
Wrapping

Choose how text wraps at the end of a line. Word will wrap entire words separated by spaces
or hyphens. Character will wrap to the next line on any character, even punctuation. CJK
works similarly to Character, but has special handling for Chinese, Japanese and Korean
punctuation characters, intended to ensure punctuation wraps appropriately.
Text direction

Set the direction of the text flow. The default is left-to-right (LTR). For some languages the
right-to-left (RTL) direction is more appropriate, such as Arabic and Hebrew. The text
direction is particularly significant when using BBcode formatting, as it affects the order of
formatted fragments.
Icon set

Choose a Sprite object to use for BBcode icon tags. Each animation frame of the Sprite
object is treated as an individual icon. Icons can then be referred to by the animation frame

Page 796 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

index, or the animation frame Tag property. See the section Using BBcode above for more
details.
Initially visibile

Whether or not the object is shown (visible) or hidden (invisible) when the layout starts.
Origin

Choose the position of the origin of the object relative to its unrotated bounding rectangle.
Read aloud

Check to indicate to screen readers that the contents of this text object ought to be read
aloud when it appears or changes. By default text objects are not read out by screen readers
as they are rendered in to a canvas, which is essentially a large image and so not accessible
to screen readers. Further, Text objects are not all automatically read aloud as this can
provide a poor screen reader experience, such as constantly reading out a changing score
instead of more helpful information. Checking this option for important text objects
improves the accessibility of projects to ensure the contents of text objects can be
understood by people who cannot necessarily read them visually. The text object does not
need to be on-screen, so a dedicated text object for screen readers with this option checked
can also be used. See also the Speech Synthesis plugin which can be used for similar
purposes.

Text conditions
For conditions common to other objects, see common conditions.
Compare text

Test whether the text object is currently displaying a certain string of text. The comparison
can be either case sensitive ("TEXT" is different to "text") or case insensitive ("TEXT" is
considered the same as "text"). To test if the text object is not showing some text, invert the
condition.
Has tag at position

Test if there is text with a specific tag at the given position (case insensitive). For example if
the text has the BBcode Hello [tag=mytag]world[/tag] , then testing if the tag "mytag" is at a
given position will check if that position is over just the part of the text that says "world".
Is running typewriter text

True while text is being written out using the Typewriter text action.
On typewriter text finished

Page 797 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
On typewriter text finished

Triggered when text being written out using the Typewriter text action finishes writing out all
the text.

Text actions
For actions common to other objects, see common actions.
Set font color

Set the color of the text. Use an expression in the form rgb(red, green, blue) .

Set font face

Change the font used to display the text. This must be the name of a web font imported to
the project, or a local font that is pre-installed on the user's device.
Set font size

Set the size of the text in points (pt).
Set horizontal alignment
Set vertical alignment
Set line height
Set read aloud
Set text direction
Set wrapping

Change the corresponding properties. See Text properties above for more information.
Set resolution mode

By default Text objects use Automatic resolution mode, which means the resolution of the
text adjusts according to the 2D display scale. This produces the best quality display, but
only works with 2D display, and can also cause the text to constantly re-render when being
smoothly scaled, which can sometimes have a significant performance overhead. Fixed
resolution mode causes the text to render at a fixed resolution according to a provided scale
factor, and ignore the display scale. This usually results in a reduced display quality but
better performance.
Append text

Add some text to the end of the current text. For example, if the text object contains Hello
and has World appended, the text object then contains HelloWorld.

Page 798 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set text

Set the text the object is currently displaying. Use the & operator to combine text and
numbers. For more information, see expressions.
Change icon set

Changes the Icon set property, replacing the Sprite used for BBcode icons. This can be used
to change the set of icons displayed by the Text object. Note if the new Sprite object does
not have the same number of animation frames, or the same animation frame tags, then
some icons may disappear.
Typewriter text

Set the text over time by starting with an empty string and gradually adding characters until
the full text is written out, over a duration specified in seconds. Once the full text is written
out, On typewriter text finished triggers. Note using Set text or Append text while text is being
written out will cancel the effect.
You can use a speed in characters per second instead of an overall time by using an
expression like len(Self.PlainText) / 10 for the time. In this case it will write out 10
characters per second regardless of the length of the string.

Finish typewriter

If text is being written out with the Typewriter text action, force it to finish immediately.
Update HTML

This action converts the contents of the Text object, including any icons, in to a string of
HTML. This can then be displayed in the HTML Element object. This action is asynchronous:
it takes a moment complete, so you need to use it with the Wait for previous actions to
complete system action before you can use the result in the AsHTML expression. See the
Text icons to HTML example for a demonstration.

Text expressions
For expressions common to other objects, see common expressions.
FaceName
FaceSize
LineHeight

Return the corresponding object's properties. See Text properties above for more details.

Page 799 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Text

Return a string containing the object's current text.
PlainText

Return a string containing the object's current text, with any BBCode tags stripped out. For
example if the text is [b]Hello[/b] , the Text expression will return that (with BBCode tags
included), but the PlainText expression will return just Hello .

AsHTML

Returns a string of HTML code that represents the content of the Text object, including
formatting and icons. This is only available after, and only updated by, the Update HTML
action completing.
TagAtPosition(x, y)

Look up the tag for a part of the text at a given position and return the tag if any, else return
an empty string if no tag is specified. For example if the text has the BBcode Hello
[tag=mytag]world[/tag] , then the tag at a position over the word "world" is "mytag", and the
tag at a position over the word "Hello" is "" (an empty string).
TagCount(tag)
TagX(tag, index)
TagY(tag, index)
TagWidth(tag, index)
TagHeight(tag, index)

Identify the size and position of all ranges of the text with a given tag. Note the count and the
index actually refers to fragments, as a single tagged range may be broken up in to multiple
pieces - see the section Tagged range fragmentation above for more details.
TextWidth
TextHeight

Return the size of the actual text content within the text object's rectangle.

Page 800 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TEXT INPUT
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/text-input

The Text input object is a form control providing a text field the user can type text in to. This is
used for getting data from the user; don't confuse it with the Text object, which is for displaying
text.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ITextInputInstance script interface.

Layering HTML objects
This object displays using a HTML element rather than drawing in to the canvas. This means its
layering works differently to other objects. To learn more about how to layer HTML objects, see
HTML layers.

Styling text inputs
As Text Input objects are HTML elements, their appearance can be customised using CSS
(Cascading Style Sheets). The ID and Class properties can be used to identify the HTML element,
and a CSS project file added to apply some styles to it.

Text Input properties
Text

The initial text entered in to the field.
Placeholder

Some text that appears faintly when the field is empty. This can be used for hints for what
the field is for, e.g. Username.
Tooltip

A tooltip that appears if the user hovers the mouse over the text box and waits. Leave blank
for no tooltip.
Initially visibile

Whether or not the text box is shown on startup. If invisible, the field must be shown with the
Set visible action.
Page 801 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enabled

Whether the text box is initially enabled. If disabled, the field will be greyed out and cannot be
modified.
Read-only

Set whether the field is read-only, which means the text cannot be modified but can still be
selected. This is different to disabling the field, which changes the appearance of the input.
Spell check

Enable spell-checking on the text entered in to the field, if the browser supports it. If enabled,
spelling errors are underlined with a squiggly red line.
Type

Set the type of content being entered in to the text field, which can be:
Text: any text content
Password: any content but characters hidden
Email: intended for strings in the format of an email, e.g. joe@bloggs.com
Number: numerical digits only
Telephone number: telephone number characters only
URL: web addresses in the general format https://example.com
Textarea: a multi-line text input, usually displayed with a monospace font
Search: text content intended as a search query

The email, number, telephone number and URL types are generally most useful for mobile
devices, since they change which type of on-screen keyboard appears when the field is
focused. For example, Text will show a general purpose on-screen keyboard, whereas
Number may show a simple number pad, making it more convenient for the user to enter the
content.

Page 802 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Auto font size

Automatically set the font-size property of the element according to the layout and layer
scale. This will prevent the font-size CSS property being manually set with the Set CSS style
action. Disable if you intend to use Set CSS style to adjust the font-size property.
ID Optional

An optional id attribute for the element in the DOM (Document Object Model). This can be
useful for accessing the element's value from external scripts, or styling with CSS in the
HTML page.

Text input conditions
See common conditions for features shared between form control objects.
Compare text

Compare the text currently entered in to the field. The comparison can either be case
sensitive ("TEXT" is different to "text") or case insensitive ("TEXT" is the same as "text").
On clicked

Triggered when the user clicks the field.
On double-clicked

Triggered when the user double-clicks the field.
On text changed

Triggered whenever the text in the field is modified, by typing, backspace/delete, cut/paste
etc.

Text input actions
See common actions for features shared between form control objects.
Append text

Add some text to the end of the current text. For example, if the text object contains Hello
and has World appended, the text object then contains HelloWorld.
Scroll to bottom

Scroll to the bottom of the control. Only has an effect when set to the textarea type, since it is
the only multiline mode. This is useful for chat or log style textareas.

Page 803 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set max length

Set the maximum number of characters allowed to be entered in the field. Set to -1 to disable
any limit and allow an unlimited number of characters (which is the default).
Set placeholder

Set the text that appears faintly when the field is empty. This can be used for hints for what
the field is for, e.g. Username.
Set read-only

Set whether the field is read-only, which means the text cannot be modified but can still be
selected. This is different to disabling the field, where text cannot be selected.
Set text

Set the text currently entered in to the field.
Set tooltip

Set the text that appears for the field tooltip. Leave blank for no tooltip.

Text Input expressions
MaxLength

Return the maximum number of characters allowed to be entered in to the field, as set by the
Set max length action. If there is no maximum length (the default), this returns -1.
Text

Get a string containing the text currently entered in to the field.

Page 804 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TILED BACKGROUND
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/tiledbackground

The Tiled Background object can display an image in a repeating pattern, as shown below.

A Tiled Background object

This pattern can be achieved with a single Tiled Background object, and it is much faster (and
more convenient to edit) than using multiple Sprite objects arranged in a grid. Always prefer
using Tiled Background objects wherever an image repeats.
Tiled Backgrounds cannot have a collision polygon. They always collide according to their
bounding rectangle.
Tiled Backgrounds can have effects applied. For more information, see Effects.
If you wish to have a tile-based project where each tile can be different, consider using a Tilemap
object instead.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ITiledBackgroundInstance script interface.

Tile randomization
If you tile a small image, or zoom out, then the repetitive appearance can become obvious. One
easy way to solve this is to enable Tile randomization in the Tiled Background properties. The
image below shows the effect this can have. See also the interactive Tile Randomization
example.

Page 805 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Left: standard tiling. Right: randomized tiling.

Tiled Background properties
Image

Click the Edit link to edit the Tiled Background's image in the Animations Editor.
Initially visibile

Choose whether the object is shown (visible) or hidden (invisible) when the layout starts.
Origin

Choose the position of the origin of the object relative to its unrotated bounding rectangle.
Wrap horizontal
Wrap vertical

Choose how the image repeats on each axis. Mirrored repeat alternately mirrors/flips the
image for each repeat. Clamp to edge can be used to prevent wrapping on one axis, for
example to wrap an image vertically only, choose Clamp to edge for Wrap horizontal. This is
useful to avoid unwanted artefacts due to wrapping on the other axis.
Image offset X
Image offset Y

Offset the displayed Tiled Background image by a number of pixels on each axis.
Image scale X
Image scale Y

Stretch the displayed Tiled Background image by a percentage on each axis.

Page 806 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Image angle

Rotate the displayed Tiled Background image by a number of degrees, relative to the offset
position.
Enable tile randomization

By default a Tiled Background repeats its image identically in a grid. However this can make
the image repetition obvious. Enabling tile randomization helps avoid this by randomly
offsetting and rotating each individual tile, and blending the edges to keep the appearance
seamless. There are several tile randomization properties that can be changed to adjust the
effect and better suit different types of artwork.
X random
Y random

When using tile randomization, adjust the amount of random horizontal and vertical offset
for each tile. This is set as a percentage from 0% (no offset) to 100% (offset up to a full tile's
width/height).
Angle random

When using tile randomization, adjust the amount of random rotation for each tile. This is set
as a percentage from 0% (no rotation) to 100% (rotate up to 360°).
Blend margin X
Blend margin Y

When using tile randomization, adjust the area over which tiles will blend in to the adjacent
tile. If these are set to 0% then there is no edge blending and so usually hard edges are
visible where tiles join. Using a value like 5% means that the first and last 5% of the tile's
width/height will fade in to the adjacent tile. Using 50% will provide a full blend across the
entire tile, as each half will be blending in to an adjacent tile, but high values can make the
artwork look blurry. Usually the lowest value that does not produce visible edges is the best
setting.

Tiled Background conditions
For conditions in common to other objects, see Common conditions.
Is tile randomization enabled

True if tile randomization is currently enabled. See the Enable tile randomization property for
more details.
On image URL loaded

Page 807 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On image URL failed to load

Triggered when Load image from URL finishes downloading the image and is ready to display
it, or if the load fails.

Tiled Background actions
For actions common to other objects, see Common actions.
Set image angle

Change the Image angle property, rotating the displayed Tiled Background image by a
number of degrees.
Set image X offset
Set image Y offset

Change the Image offset X and Image offset Y properties, offsetting the displayed tiled
background image.
Avoid indefinitely increasing the image offset, such as by always adding to it. In some
cases a very large image offset can start to exhibit rendering glitches due to precision
issues on the GPU. You can avoid this by wrapping the image offset back to 0 after it
exceeds the image size.

Set image X scale
Set image Y scale

Change the Image scale X and Image scale Y properties, stretching the displayed tiled
background image by a percentage on each axis.
Set tile randomization enabled

Set whether tile randomization is currently enabled. See the Enable tile randomization
property for more details.
Set angle random
Set position random
Set tile blend margin

When tile randomization is enabled, set the relevant tile randomization properties. See the
corresponding properties above for more details.
Load image from URL

Page 808 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Load an image from a given URL. It is not shown until the image has finished downloading,
and On image URL loaded triggers. Images loaded from different domains are subject to the
same cross-domain restrictions as AJAX requests - for more information see the section on
cross-domain in the AJAX object. Data URIs can also be passed as an image, e.g. from a
canvas snapshot or camera image.

Tiled Background expressions
For expressions common to other objects, see common expressions.
ImageWidth
ImageHeight

The original dimensions of the tiled background's current image in pixels. Since tiled
backgrounds can be extended over large areas causing the normal Width and Height
expressions to return different values, these can be used to get the original size of the source
image regardless of the object size.
ImageAngle

Return the Image angle property, in degrees.
ImageOffsetX
ImageOffsetY

Return the Image offset X and Image offset Y properties, in pixels.
ImageScaleX
ImageScaleY

Return the Image scale X and Image scale Y properties, as a percentage.
TileAngleRandom
TileBlendMarginX
TileBlendMarginY
TileXRandom
TileYRandom

These expressions return the current tile randomization settings. See the corresponding
properties above for more details.

Page 809 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TILEMAP
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/tilemap

The Tilemap object allows tile-based projects to be designed more easily. The object's tilemap
can also be edited in the layout view using the Tilemap Bar.

An example tilemap

Tilemaps also have significant performance benefits over achieving the same results with other
kinds of objects, such as arranging a grid of Sprites. The Tilemap object can optimise collision
detection and rendering in a way that scales well even with extremely large Tilemap objects.
For information about editing tilemaps in Construct, see the manual entry for the Tilemap Bar.
A useful behavior to use to move objects around on top of the Tilemap object is the Tile
movement behavior.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ITilemapInstance script interface.

Tilemap object image
The image used for the Tilemap object is the tileset. This is an image that contains every
different tile that can be used in the tilemap. The tiles can also can be offset and spaced, but this
is not normally necessary. The tileset image appears in the Tilemap Bar after selecting the
object, allowing you to choose which tiles to draw with.

Collisions
When testing for collisions with a Tilemap object, empty (erased) tiles count as not colliding, and
by default all other tiles count as colliding. A custom collision polygon can be set, or collisions
disabled, for individual tiles by double-clicking a tile in the Tilemap bar. The image editor will
appear for the tile, where the collision polygon can be modified, or disabled completely by
Page 810 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

unticking the Use collision property, or right-clicking on the image and selecting Toggle collision
polygon.

Tile IDs
Each tile in the tileset has a zero-based index to identify it. This starts with the top-left tile and
increments horizontally in rows. The tile ID can easily be seen by hovering the mouse over a tile
in the Tilemap Bar. The tile ID is useful for comparing or setting tiles at runtime with the object's
conditions, actions and expressions.

Tile positions
When using tiles in the object's conditions, actions and expressions, positions are generally
given in tiles instead of layout co-ordinates. You can convert between tile positions and layout
co-ordinates using the PositionToTileX/Y and TileToPositionX/Y expressions.

Inappropriate uses of Tilemaps
Don't use tilemaps to display large images where every tile in the tilemap is different. This makes
it needlessly less efficient to render the image, since it is rendered one tile at a time when you
could have just used a Sprite.

Tilemap Properties
Image

Click the Edit link to edit the tileset image from which tiles are drawn.
Initially visibile

Choose whether the object is visible or invisible at the start of the layout.
Tile width
Tile height

The size of tiles in the tilemap, in pixels.
Tile X offset
Tile Y offset

The offset in pixels of the top-left tile in the tileset image. This is not normally necessary and
is provided mainly for compatibility with existing tileset images that have the tiles drawn at
an offset.
Tile X spacing
Tile Y spacing

Page 811 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The spacing in pixels between tiles in the tileset image. This is not normally necessary and is
provided mainly for compatibility with existing tileset images that have the tiles drawn apart
from each other.

Tilemap conditions
Compare tile at

Compare the tile ID at a position in the tilemap.
Compare tile state at

Test whether a tile at a position in the tilemap is flipped or rotated from its normal state.
On image URL loaded
On image URL failed to load

Triggered when Load image from URL finishes downloading the image and is ready to display
it, or if the load fails.
Brush exists

Check if a tilemap brush exists

Tilemap actions
Download

Invoke a download of the current tilemap data (from the TilesJSON expression) as a JSON
file. This can be useful for in-game level editors.
Load

Load the current tiles from a string of JSON data from a previous use of the TilesJSON
expression.
Erase tile

Erase the tile at a position.
Erase tile range

Erase a rectangular area of tiles in the tilemap.
Erase tile with brush

Page 812 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Erase tiles using a brush created in the Tilemap Brush Editor. When using an auto tiling
brush, the specified position will be modified, along with the surrounding eight positions. If a
patch brush is used the whole patch will be erased.
Erase tile with brush (by name)

Like Erase tile with brush, but allows you to specify the name of the brush using a string.
Erase tiles with patch brush

Erase tiles using a patch brush. This is similar to Erase tile with brush, with the additional
options to specify to mirror, flip and rotate the brush.
Erase tiles with patch brush (by name)

Like Erase tiles with patch brush, but allows you to specify the name of the brush using a
string.
Set tile

Set the tile at a position in the tilemap by its tile ID. The tile that is set can also optionally be
flipped or rotated.
Set tile range

As with Set tile, but sets a rectangular area of tiles in the tilemap.
Set tile state

Set the tile flipped or rotated state at a position in the tilemap. The tile ID is not changed.
Set tile state range

Set the flipped or rotated state for a rectangular area of tiles in the tilemap. None of the tile
IDs in the rectangular area are changed.
Set tile with brush

Set tiles using a brush created in the Tilemap Brush Editor. When using an auto tiling brush,
the specified position will be modified, along with the surrounding eight positions. Using a
patch brush modifies all the tiles covered by the patch, the selected position corresponds to
the top left of the patch.
Set tile with brush (by name)

Like Set tile with brush, but allows you to specify the name of the brush using a string.

Page 813 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set tile with patch brush

Set tiles using a patch brush. This is similar to Set tile with brush, with the additional options
to specify to mirror, flip and rotate the brush. The Invalid indexes parameter allows you to
choose what should happen when a patch brush doesn't have a valid tile set at a given
position, Erase deletes the corresponding tile, while Ignore leaves the tile unchanged.
Set tile with patch brush (by name)

Like Set tile with patch brush, but allows you to specify the name of the brush using a string.
Load image from URL

Load a new tilemap image from a given URL. It is not used until the image has finished
downloading, and On image URL loaded triggers. Images loaded from different domains are
subject to the same cross-domain restrictions as AJAX requests - for more information see
the section on cross-domain in the AJAX object. Data URIs can also be passed as an image,
e.g. from a canvas snapshot or camera image.

Tilemap expressions
TilesJSON

Retrieve the tile data in JSON format, which can be loaded in again later using the Load
action. Note this differs from the built-in AsJSON expression, which returns the entire object
state (including position, size, behaviors etc), whereas TilesJSON returns only the tile data.
MapDisplayWidth
MapDisplayHeight

The size of the displayed tilemap in tiles. For example if a Tilemap is 320px wide with tiles
32px wide, the display width is 10 as at this size it can fit 10 tiles in to the width.
PositionToTileX(x)
PositionToTileY(y)

Convert an X or Y layout co-ordinate in to the corresponding tile number in the tilemap. For
example, this can be used to get the tile position under the mouse.
SnapX(x)
SnapY(y)

Snap an X or Y layout co-ordinate to the nearest tile. This also returns a layout co-ordinate,
but aligned to the nearest tile in the tilemap.
TileAt(x, y)

Page 814 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
( , y)

Return the tile ID at a position in the tilemap. Note the position is given in tiles, not layout coordinates. If the tile at the given position is empty (has been erased), the expression returns
-1.
TileWidth
TileHeight

The width and height of each tile, as specified in the Tilemap properties.
TileToPositionX(x)
TileToPositionY(y)

Convert a tile position to layout co-ordinates. For example, this can be used to position a
Sprite object on top of a given tile.
BrushWidth
BrushHeight

The width and height (in tiles) of a patch brush. Auto tiling brushes always return 0.

Page 815 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMELINE CONTROLLER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/timelinecontroller

The Timeline controller object allows timelines to be controlled in event sheets.

Tagging
Much like tweens, timelines can be optionally tagged when they are played using one of the Play
actions. Tags are useful to later control a timeline (or multiple timelines sharing the same tags)
with some of the other actions, conditions or expressions.

Setting instances to play
In the simplest case, a timeline will affect the instances that were used to create the timeline in
the editor. Using the Set Instance action it is possible to use different instances to the ones used
in the editor. Below are some short examples to help illustrate how this action works.
In the below example the timeline plugin Play action is used by itself on startup. This plays the
timeline affecting the instances used in the editor to create the timeline. The timeline is tagged
"new-timeline".

In this example the timeline plugin Play action is used together with the system plugin Create
Object action and the timeline plugin Set Instance action. This plays the timeline affecting the
newly created instance. The new instance will be used in the track with ID "a-track-id" and the
timeline is tagged "new-timeline"

This example is similar to the last one, but instead of creating a new instance from scratch, the
one picked by a collision event is used.

Page 816 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

About picking
When using the Play action after one or more Set Instance actions, it is possible that one or
more similar timelines will start playing. This will depend on the amount of currently picked
instances for each given object type.
In the example below a timeline will be played for each group of instances.
This is the preview of the timeline in the editor. It has two different tracks and placeholder
instances.
Using the Set Instance action we specify to play a timeline for each picked group of instances at
the start of the layout

Lastly the preview of the layout shows that two different timelines where created to
accommodate for the four instances found at the start of the layout.

Omitting the track ID
There are a couple of cases in which it is possible to ignore using the track ID property of a track
as well as omit using the track ID parameter of the Set Instance action.

A timeline with only one track
In this case it is possible to not use the track ID, as there is only one instance so there is no need
to make any choice. The track ID must be empty in both the timeline track and the Set Instance
action.

A timeline that will have all of its instances replaced
In the case it is needed to replace all of the instance of a timeline using the Set Instance action,
it is possible to skip using a track ID for each track and on each call to Set Instance. If there is
one Set Instance action for each track in the timeline, the instances will be replaced in the same
order they appear in the timeline.
The images bellow show how a timeline and it's properties might look in in this case.

Page 817 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Template timeline

First instance properties

Second instance properties

Events

In this particular case the octopus sprite is used in the first track while the toster sprite is used
in the second track. Because no track IDs are used, order is assumed to be the same as that
defined in the editor.

Unsetting all instances
Sometimes it might be necessary to clear the state the Timeline Controller uses in order to use
different instances in a timeline. You might find that some state was previously set but no
timeline was played to use it. Such a scenario is likely to cause subsequent uses of Set instance
and Play to produce unexpected results. In those cases use the Unset instances action to clear
the Timeline Controller before attempting to use Set Instance and Play together again.

Timeline controller conditions
Is any playing

Page 818 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
Is any playing

True if any timeline is playing.
Is playing

True if a specified timeline is playing, given by its tag.
Is any paused