# Manual Construct 3  Parte 4 (líneas 36014800)

## Resumen
- Dropping multiple image files in to the Frames pane will add a new frame for each dropped (línea 8)
- Animations pane (línea 15)
- You can drag-and-drop either a single image file or multiple image files in to the Animations (línea 16)
- pane, and it is handled in the same way as with the Frames pane, except that the frames are (línea 17)
- added to a new animation. (línea 18)
- Bulk importing (línea 20)
- The Animations Editor offers a few different methods to import images in bulk. (línea 21)
- Importing folders (línea 23)
- Dragging and dropping a folder into the Animations panel, will create a new sub folder with a (línea 24)
- new animation inside of it. The animation will have frames for all images found at the root (línea 25)
- level of the folder. Both the new sub folder and the animation will have the name of the (línea 26)
- dropped folder. (línea 27)
- Dragging and dropping a folder into the Frames panel or the Main drawing area will add all (línea 28)
- the individual images in the folder as frames of the current animation. (línea 29)
- Importing zip files (línea 31)
- Dragging and dropping a zip file into the Animations panel, will create a new animation with (línea 32)
- all images found at the root level of the zip file. The animation will have the same name as (línea 33)
- the zip file. (línea 34)
- Dragging and dropping a zip file into the Frames panel or the Main drawing area will add all (línea 35)
- the individual images in the zip file as frames of the current animation. (línea 36)

## Contenido

as the context menu option Import►From sheet.
Dropping multiple image files in to the Frames pane will add a new frame for each dropped
image file. This works the same way as the context menu option Import►From files.

Page 120 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Animations pane
You can drag-and-drop either a single image file or multiple image files in to the Animations
pane, and it is handled in the same way as with the Frames pane, except that the frames are
added to a new animation.

Bulk importing
The Animations Editor offers a few different methods to import images in bulk.

Importing folders
Dragging and dropping a folder into the Animations panel, will create a new sub folder with a
new animation inside of it. The animation will have frames for all images found at the root
level of the folder. Both the new sub folder and the animation will have the name of the
dropped folder.
Dragging and dropping a folder into the Frames panel or the Main drawing area will add all
the individual images in the folder as frames of the current animation.

Importing zip files
Dragging and dropping a zip file into the Animations panel, will create a new animation with
all images found at the root level of the zip file. The animation will have the same name as
the zip file.
Dragging and dropping a zip file into the Frames panel or the Main drawing area will add all
the individual images in the zip file as frames of the current animation.

Importing from the toolbar options
The toolbar Load button has two options. Load frames and Load animations.
Load frames allows you to pick images to be loaded as frames of the current animation. It is
also possible to pick zip files from the file picker. All images in a zip file will be added as
frames of the current animation.
Load animations allows you to pick images to be loaded into a new animation. Is is also
possible to pick zip files from the file picker. A new animation will be created with all of the
individual images picked, while each picked zip file will correspond to a new animation being
created.
Note: loading from the toolbar does not support picking folders.

Animated image file formats
In supported browsers, animated image file formats like GIF and APNG can be imported as a
sequence of frames. This covers any method of importing an image file, including via drag-andPage 121 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

drop or by the toolbar Load frames option.
This is supported in Chrome and Edge. Other browsers may not support this feature, in
which case only the first frame of the animation will be imported.

Nested content
Folders and zip files which in turn also have folders and zip files inside of them are supported,
depending on how you try to import these, this is how C3 will behave.
Dropping in the Animations Panel: C3 will process everything and create animations and sub
folders as needed.
Dropping in the Frames Panel or Drawing Area: all of the nested content will be turned into a
flat list and added as frames to the current animation.
Toolbar Load Frames option: all the nested content inside a zip file will be turned into a flat
list and added to the current animation.
Toolbar Load Animations option: if a zip file with nested content is loaded, the images at the
root level of the zip will be used to create an animation, if other zip files are found, new
animations will be created for them. If a folder is found in a zip file, a sub folder with an
animation inside of it will be created, following the same patters as importing a folder.
The key points to remember are:
Importing folders will create a sub folder with an animation inside of it, both named after the
original folder. The animation will have frames corresponding to the images found at the root
level of the original folder.
Importing zip files will create an animation named after the zip file and will have frames
corresponding to all the images found at the root level of the zip file.
If nested content is found, the same pattern applies. Each folder will correspond to a new
sub folder with a new animation inside of it. Each zip file will correspond to a new animation.
Note: Construct does not allow duplicate animation names. If content with duplicate names
is imported, Construct will always assign unique names to each animation created.

Note: By default Construct will assign unique names to imported sub folders aswell, but this
is not strictly necessary and can be overridden using the "use-raw-folder-names"
configuration option described below.

Configuration file options

Page 122 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Normally when importing a single file, C3 asks if the file should be treated as a sprite sheet or as
a single file. In the case of importing multiple files this isn't really an option. Because of that,
when importing folders or zips, even if an animation ends up having only one frame, C3 never
asks how it it should be treated.
To get around this problem, a special configuration file can be added to a folder or zip file to tell
C3 how it should handle the files found on them.
It's a simple JSON file, must be named c3-import-settings.json and should look like this:
{
"import-mode": "spritesheet",
"sort": "alphabetical",
"order": "ascending",
"replace-existing-animation": false,
"replace-existing-folder": false,
"use-raw-folder-names": false,
"spritesheet": {
"horizontal-cells": 4,
"vertical-cells": 4,
"direction": "horizontal"
},
"svg": {
"width": 100,
"height": 100
},
"animation": {
"name": "optional-animation-name",
"speed": 5,
"loop": false,
"repeat-count": 1,
"repeat-to": 0,
"ping-pong": false,
"frame-durations": [1, 2, 3, 4],
"frame-collision-polys": [
{"points":[0,0,1,0,1,1,0,1]},
{"points":[0,0,1,0,1,1,0,1]},
{"points":[0,0,1,0,1,1,0,1]},

Page 123 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

{"points":[0,0,1,0,1,1,0,1]}
],
"frame-image-points":[

[{"originX":0.5,"originY":0.5}, {"name":"Image Point 1","x":0.5,"y":0.5}
[{"originX":0.5,"originY":0.5}],
[{"originX":0.5,"originY":0.5}],
[{"originX":0.5,"originY":0.5}]
],
"frame-tags":["tag-1", "tag-2", "tag-3", "tag-4"]
}
}

Configuration file options
import-mode can be either "spritesheet" or "files".
Note: The import-mode in the JSON file reflects the Animations Editor's interface, so it is
only relevant when an animation with only 1 frame is going to be created.
sort can be either "alphabetical", "numerical" or "no-sort". Defaults to "alphabetical" if not
provided.
alphabetical sort will interpret the file names as characters and will sort alphabetically.
numerical sort should be used when the names of the files are numbers, so the importer
interprets the names as such and sorts as expected.
no-sort won't do any sorting and leave the incoming files in whatever order they were
initially read in. This might not be the expected order.
If a sort mode is not provided and all the files have numerical names Ej. 1.png, 2.png,
etc..., then sorting will default to "numerical".
order can be either "ascending" or "descending". Defaults to "ascending" if not provided.
Allows you to choose the sorting order of the imported files.
replace-existing-animation is optional, can be either true or false and will default to false if
not provided. If set to true, if an animation with the same name is found when importing, the
imported one will replace the existing one, instead of creating a new one.
replace-existing-folder is optional, can be either true or false and will default to false if not
provided. If set to true, if there is an existing folder with the same name as the imported one,
all the contents of the existing folder will be replaced with the content of the imported folder.
use-raw-folder-names is optional, by default the importer will create unique folder names.
Setting it to true will allow the importer to create folders with duplicate names. When using
the Animations editor export with data options, the generated file has this option set to true.

Page 124 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

spritesheet mimics the settings you can pick when importing a sprite sheet through the
Animations Editor UI.
svg defines what size to use when encountering SVG files.
animation these settings can be used to override the default properties of an animation. If an
animation name is provided, then it will take precedence over the name of the folder or zip
file.
The frame-durations property of animation is an array that allows you to specify the frame
duration of each frame in the animation. Add one number for each frame in the animation. If
a frame does not have a matching value in the array, the default value of "1" will be used. If
the array is not specified at all, all imported frames will have a duration of "1".
frame-collision-polys is an array that allows you to specify the collision polygon for each
frame in the animation. Add one object for each frame in the animation. If a frame does not
have a matching object in the array, the default collision polygon will be used. If the array is
not specified at all, all imported frames will have the default collision polygon. Each object in
the array must follow the syntax in the example. This option is not meant to be used
manually, instead it's values will be generated when using the options in the Animations
editor to export animations with data.
Note: frame-collision-polys can be used manually but is meant to be generated
automatically by Construct when using the exporting options of the Animations editor.
frame-image-points is an array of arrays that allows you to specify the image points for each
frame in the animation. The first element in each array always refers to the origin image
point and must be specified using the syntax in the example, subsequent elements refer to
image points and must also follow the syntax in the example. Add one array of image points
for each frame in the animation. If a frame does not have a matching array of image points,
the default image point will be. If the array is not specified at all, all imported frames will have
the default image point. This option is not meant to be used manually, instead it's values will
be generated when using the options in the Animations editor to export animations with
data.
Note: frame-image-points can be used manually but is meant to be generated
automatically by Construct when using the exporting options of the Animations editor.
frame-tags is an array that allows you to specify the tag for each frame in the animation. If a
frame does not have a matching tag in the array, the animation frame will default to having
an empty tag. If the array is not specified at all, all imported frames will have the default
empty tag. This option is not meant to be used manually, instead it's values will be generated
when using the options in the Animations editor to export animations with data.
Note: frame-tags can be used manually but is meant to be generated automatically by

Page 125 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Construct when using the exporting options of the Animations editor.

Sorting options examples
These are a few examples illustrating how the sorting options will behave when doing a bulk
import.
Example 1
The following list of file names:
"pig.png", "octocus.png", "rock.png", "robot.png", "toaster.png", "monster.png"

when sorted in "alphabetical" and "ascending" order will end up like this
"monster.png", "octocus.png", "pig.png", "robot.png", "rock.png", "toaster.png"

Example 2
The following list of file names:
"1.png", "2.png", "3.png", "4.png", "5.png", "6.png", "7.png", "8.png", "9.png", "10.png"

when sorted in "alphabetical" and "ascending" order will end up like this
"1.png", "10.png", "2.png", "3.png", "4.png", "5.png", "6.png", "7.png", "8.png", "9.png"

Notice that in Example 2, "alphabetical" sorting does not work as expected with file names
which are purely numbers.

Example 3
The following list of file names:
"10.png", "9.png", "8.png", "7.png", "6.png", "5.png", "4.png", "3.png", "2.png", "1.png"

when sorted in "numerical" and "ascending" order will end up like this
"1.png", "2.png", "3.png", "4.png", "5.png", "6.png", "7.png", "8.png", "9.png", "10.png"

Example 4
The following list of file names:

Page 126 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

"a-10.png", "a-9.png", "a-8.png", "a-7.png", "a-6.png", "a-5.png", "a-4.png", "a-3.png", "a-2.pn

when sorted in "numerical" and "ascending" order will end up like this

"a-10.png", "a-9.png", "a-8.png", "a-7.png", "a-6.png", "a-5.png", "a-4.png", "a-3.png", "a-2.pn

Notice that in Example 4, "numerical" sorting does not work as expected because the file
names are not purely numerical. In this case they can not be interpreted as numbers, even
though they might look like they can, so no sorting is performed.
In order to avoid unexpected behaviour, the best is to choose a naming convention for the files
and stick to that, either numbers or characters.
It is worth mentioning that because of the way "alphabetical" sorting works it is possible to
generate names that include both characters and numbers that will be sorted as expected.
Example 5
The following list of file names:
"anim-010.png", "anim-009.png", "anim-008.png", "anim-007.png", "anim-006.png", "anim-005.png",

when sorted in "alphabetical" and "ascending" order will end up like this
"anim-001.png", "anim-002.png", "anim-003.png", "anim-004.png", "anim-005.png", "anim-006.png",

Notice that in Example 5, "alphabetical" sorting with numbers in the file names works as
expected because the numbers are zero padded.

Location of the configuration file
The configuration file can be placed at the root of a folder or zip structure and will affect all
content found.
Another file with the same name can be placed further down the hierarchy and will take
precedence over the ones found before. That way you can configure different sets of files to be
interpreted differently when imported.

Exporting animations with data
The Save option allows you to export animations with their corresponding image point and
collision polygon data. This can be done for an individual animation as well as for all the
animations in the object type.

Page 127 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The generated file can then be used to bulk import all those animations into a different project.
To do so, you can use any of the importing options described earlier.

Color palette file format
Bellow is an example of the file generated by C3 when it saves a color palette to a JSON file.
{
"name": "MyPalette",
"slots": "3",
"palette": [
"rgba(255, 0, 0, 1)",
"rgba(0, 255, 0, 1)",
"rgba(0, 0, 255, 1)"
],
}

Color palette file properties
name is optional, if not provided the loaded palette will be given a unique name. If it is
provided it will be used, unless it already exists in the project in which case it is used as a
base for a unique name.
slots is optional and represents the amount of swatches a palette has. If it is not provided
the size of palette is used.
palette is a JSON array of colors and must exist. The example uses the CSS rgba format for
the colors, but any valid CSS color format can be used.
When downloading multiple palettes, C3 generates a zip file which bundles these type of
files.

If you wish to import a color palette from an external program you will need to generate this
type of file.

Miscellaneous settings
Clicking on the three dot button in the top right of the editor (next to the close button), brings up
a dialog where you can set the following options:

Import Settings
Guess collision polygon after importing images

Page 128 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Toggle this setting to choose if the collision polygon for new imported images should be
guessed automatically or not. Affects all methods of importing.
Use file name when importing animations

Toggle this setting to choose if the file name of the imported file should be used to name a
new animation or not. Affects all methods of importing animations.

Palette Settings
Swatch size

Choose the size the swatches of the color palette should have.

Download Settings
Image format

Choose the file format, quality and compression that the Animations editor should use when
saving files to the local file system.

Page 129 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE DEBUGGER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/debugger

Bugs refer to software defects - things not working as you expected in your project. Debugging
refers to the process of fixing these issues. Construct's debugger is a tool to help you find and
fix bugs in your project.
The debugger has three tabs: Inspect, Watch Paid plans only, CPU Profiler Paid plans only and
GPU Profiler Paid plans only. For more information, see the manual entries for each.

Running the debugger
The debugger appears when you choose the Debug preview mode. This can be reached via the
main toolbar, the main menu, the Project Bar or using the keyboard shortcut Ctrl + F5.
The debugger works much like an ordinary preview, except that an extra panel appears alongside
the project showing lots of information and some diagnostic tools.

The debugger showing information about the running project

Customising the debugger panel
Page 130 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The debug panel can be resized by dragging the resize border along the top. This allows you to
pull it out to see more information, or collapse it down to just its tools and a summary of the
performance information.
The debugger can also be popped out in to its own window. This is especially useful on multimonitor setups. The project will show using the full browser window, and a separate browser
window displays the debug panel. Click the pop-out button in the top-right of the debugger panel
to do this. Clicking it again, or closing the popup window, will restore the debugger panel to the
main browser window again.
You may see a permission prompt when clicking the pop-out button. Granting permission
will allow Construct to remember the position of the pop-out window across displays if you
have a multi-monitor setup.

Main debugger commands
Alongside the pop-out button are some other useful tools. They are as follows:
Pause: pause the project so it is no longer progressing. This is useful to spend a while
inspecting some information at a particular moment. When paused it turns in to a Resume
button; click it again to resume running.
Step can only be used when paused. It advances the project by a single frame. Delta-time
(dt) is set as if the project were running at 60 FPS. This can be useful to inspect a moment
frame-by-frame and watch how an event like a collision is handled.
Save and Load make a temporary save, allowing you to quickly save the state of the project
and then restore back to that state at any time later on. This can be useful for repeatedly
running the same part of a project over and over again. The state is stored to the current
browser's local storage. The save will not be available in a different browser, but will be
available in the same browser even after closing and reopening it, rebooting, etc.
Take screenshot will download a screenshot of the main project view, providing a useful tool
to capture images of your project.
Restart will refresh the project, loading it from scratch again.

Performance summary
Some details about the performance of the project appear in the debugger's main title bar, and in
the Inspect tab area for the System object, which is displayed initially. For more advice on
performance, see Performance Tips. Note that since the debugger displays and manages a lot
of information, it can have a significant performance overhead itself; when measuring
performance, it's best to switch to one of the Profiler tabs Paid plans only, or use the normal
preview mode and display performance measurements with objects. The performance
information the debugger displays includes the following:

Page 131 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The object count (e.g. 500 objects): how many objects are currently created. Using too many
objects can degrade performance. This value corresponds to the objectcount system
expression.
The framerate (e.g. 60 FPS): how many frames per second the project is rendering. The most
common display refresh rate is 60 Hz, so typically an efficiently designed project will render
at 60 FPS. Note however if nothing is changing on-screen, then nothing is rendered, and so
the framerate may fall to 0 or display a lower result; this does not indicate poor performance,
only that fewer frames are necessary to render. The Ticks per second measurement in the
System performance section of the inspector shows how frequently the engine is stepping,
which may be different to the frames rendered per second. This value corresponds to the fps
system expression.
The estimated CPU time (e.g. 20% CPU): an estimate of how much CPU time is being spent
in the logic of the project. This is not always accurate, especially since it only takes in to
account time spent on the main JavaScript thread, and should only be considered a ballpark
figure. The profiler Paid plans only can break this down in to how much time is being spent in
each area of the project, and is described in more detail later on in this guide. This value
corresponds to the CPUUtilisation system expression.
The estimated GPU time (e.g. 20% GPU): an estimate of how much GPU time is being spent
in the rendering of the project. This is also an estimate based on hardware timers in the GPU.
This value corresponds to the GPUUtilisation system expression.
The estimated image memory use (e.g. 32.5mb images): an estimate of how much memory
is being used by the currently loaded images in the project. Images typically use up the most
memory in a project, but note this value excludes everything else, such as memory required
to run the logic of the project or to play music and sound effects. See the guide on Memory
usage for more information. This value corresponds to the ImageMemoryUsage system
expression.
Some additional performance details appear in the Performance section of the System object's
inspector view, which is displayed by default:
Collision checks/sec (e.g. 1144 (~22 / tick)): how many times in the last second the engine
had to test for a collision between two objects. Collision checks are invoked by the On
collision or Is overlapping sprite conditions, and many behaviors perform additional collision
checks automatically. In brackets, the average checks per tick is also shown. For example if
there were 600 collision checks in the last second and the framerate is 60 FPS, the estimated
checks per tick will be 10. This tells you on average there were about ten collision checks per
frame, although the actual value will often vary frame-by-frame.
Poly checks/sec (e.g. 60 (~1 / tick)): most collision checks are very fast, and the engine can
tell trivially that two objects are not overlapping (by verifying that their bounding boxes do
not overlap). However if two object's bounding boxes are overlapping, the engine must do a
more expensive check where the collision polygons of each object are tested against each
other. This value tells how many checks of this kind were made in the last second, as well as
with the average per tick as with the Collision checks/sec value. Usually the Poly checks/sec
value is considerably smaller, but if it is high, it indicates a possible performance problem.

Page 132 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Breakpoints
When running the debugger, it's possible to set breakpoints to pause execution of an event sheet
on a specific event, condition or action. For more information, see the manual entry on
breakpoints.

Page 133 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE DEBUGGER 'INSPECT' TAB
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/debugger/inspect-tab

The Inspect tab is used to view and edit values in the project, such as an object's position.
The Inspect view is divided in to two sections. On the left appears a list of all the object types in
the project, including the System object. On the right appears a list of tables of values relating to
the selected object, similar to the Properties Bar.

The object list
Click the name of an object type in the object list to expand it. The number of instances of that
object type appears in brackets after the object name. If the object type only has one instance, or
is a global object like the System object or Audio object, it will immediately start inspecting the
object. Otherwise it expands a dropdown with a list of all the object instances sorted by their
index ID (IID). Clicking a particular instance will then inspect just that instance.
There are two ways to filter down the object list:
1

Type in to the search box underneath the object list to instantly filter down the list to only show
objects matching the entered search term.
You can also enter a number in the search box to inspect the instance with the
corresponding Unique ID (UID).

2

Tick Hide unused underneath the object list to remove any objects from the list with zero
instances. This will still list project-wide plugins like the Keyboard object.

The System object is always shown at the top of the object list, regardless of any filtering
options.

The values view
As with the Properties Bar, the values view shows a categorised list of tables displaying all the
information about the currently inspected object. The displayed values depend on what is being
inspected; for example the Sprite object displays information about its current animation frame,
the Audio object displays information about currently playing sound and music, and the System
object displays information about the engine, layout, and layers. Most often these values
correspond to object properties from the Properties bar, as well as the object's expressions.
Instance variables and behavior values are also shown if the selected object has any.
It is often useful to view these values while running the project. However, they can also be edited.
As with the Properties Bar, simply click on a value and type in a new value to change it. Edited
Page 134 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

values appear in bold. This can be an excellent way to experiment with how your project works.
Note that not all values are editable - those with a light grey background are read-only.
The eye icon to the right of values can be used to add the value to the Watch tab Paid plans only.
This is described in more detail later on.
The Tools section gives you the ability to destroy the inspected object. By default the inspected
object is also outlined with a dotted rectangle in the project to help identify it. If this is
distracting, uncheck the Highlight checkbox.
Objects in a container also provide a list of links to inspect the other instances in the container
with the currently inspected object. Objects in a hierarchy also provide a list of links to inspect
the parent or child instances in the hierarchy relative to the currently inspected object.

Page 135 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE DEBUGGER 'WATCH' TAB
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/debugger/watch-tab

Paid plans only The Inspect tab only allows you to view one object at a time, and often also
includes a great deal of information, much of which you may not be interested in. Clicking the
eye icon (circled in red below) beside values in the Inspect tab adds that single value to the
Watch tab. This allows you to combine different values from different objects in to a single
space, as well as reduce the displayed values to just the ones you're interested in.

In the Watch tab, values can be edited as with the Inspect tab.
The Watch tab shows crosses instead of eyes to the right of the values. Click the cross to
remove the value from the watch. Note if you are watching a value from an object and the object
is destroyed, the watch value will automatically be removed.
Category headers also have their own eye or cross icons. Clicking them will add or remove the
entire section to or from the watch.

Page 136 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE DEBUGGER 'CPU PROFILER' TAB
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/debugger/profile-tab

Paid plans only The CPU profiler tab provides a more detailed breakdown of the estimated CPU
usage. The project must be running continuously for the profiler to be able to collect and display
information. It then displays a breakdown of the estimated CPU time spent in each part of the
project logic. It updates once a second and the values shown are for the previous second only.

The CPU profiler tab displaying some results

It must be noted that the overall CPU usage is an estimate to begin with, and all other values are
therefore estimates as well. The details shown in the profiler only relate to the main JavaScript
thread, and the CPU could be busy with other tasks, such as processing audio or running
pathfinding calculations. Additionally the time for the GPU to render the project is not taken in to
account at all by the profiler (and is instead covered in the GPU profiler tab).
CPU measurements can be unreliable, especially when the system is largely idle. Most
modern devices deliberately slow down the CPU if not fully loaded in order to save power.
This means work takes longer to get done, and these measurements will misleadingly return
a higher measurement, since it's based on timing how long the work takes. It will generally
only be reliable in the device's maximum performance mode, i.e. under full load.
Despite the above caveats, the profiler can be used to identify "hot spots" which would be good
candidates to attempt to optimise first if there is a performance problem. For more performance
advice, see Performance Tips. Note that optimisation is often not necessary and is a waste of
time if the project is already running fast enough. For a deeper discussion of the subject, see the
blog post Optimisation: don't waste your time.

Profiler breakdown
The profiler shows a table identifying how much CPU time has been spent in each part of the
engine, down to individual event groups. It shows both the Self time, which is the time spent in

Page 137 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

just that item, as well as the Total time, which is the self time plus the time for any sub-items.
The total time is mainly applicable for events, since it shows how much time was spent in that
item and all its sub-items. For example an event group's self time is the time spent processing
the group excluding any sub-groups, and its total time is the time spent processing the group
including any sub-groups. By default the table is sorted showing the highest self time at the top,
which is normally the best way to identify what needs to be optimised. However you can click
the table headers to sort by total time instead.
The top-level items are:
Events: a breakdown of how much time was spent running event logic in the event sheets
used by the layout. This is first broken down in to each event sheet (in case includes were
used), and then further down in to groups and nested groups of events. This can help identify
the most CPU-intensive events which you may want to optimise. Note: this category includes
time spent running scripts in events.
Triggers: some triggers, like On mouse clicked, run outside the normal event processing that
happens every tick. These are not covered in the Events section, so are included under this
item instead. Note: this category includes time spent running scripts in triggered events.
Scripts: how much time was spent running scripts in your project. This only covers script
files - scripts in events are measured under the Events and Triggers categories. Note: only
the time spent in synchronous event callbacks from the engine can be counted. Construct
cannot definitively attribute other time spent running your scripts to this category, such as
asynchronous code or callbacks outside of the Construct engine. For example code that
runs synchronously in the "tick" event is counted here. However code after an await , or
in a setTimeout callback, is not attributed to this category, because Construct is unable to
attribute the time spent running script in those cases. It will either be counted under the
Engine / Other category, or may not be counted by the CPU profiler at all. If you use this type
of code heavily, rely on the profiler in browser's developer tools instead.
Plugin processing: how much time was spent updating plugins in the engine. Many plugins
require a small amount of work to update them every tick, such as for Sprite to advance
animations. If there are a large number of instances, this amount of work can become
significant. The CPU profiler can also break down this time per plugin to help identify which
objects might be contributing most to the plugin processing time.
Behavior processing: how much time was spent updating behaviors in the engine. Many
behaviors require some work every tick to process movement, collisions and so on. If there
are a large number of instances, this amount of work can become significant. The CPU
profiler can also break down this time per behavior to help identify which objects might be
contributing most to the behavior processing time. In particular the Physics behavior is often
CPU-intensive as it must run a physics simulation.
Tweens / Timelines: how much time was spent updating currently running tweens and
timelines in the project. This is not normally significant unless you have very large numbers
of instances running tweens or timelines.

Page 138 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

This measurement also includes event sheet triggers for tweens and timelines, such as
the Tween On finished trigger. This means this measurement may have some overlap
with the Triggers measurement.
Draw calls: how long it took the CPU to issue rendering calls, not including the time for the
GPU to complete them. In some cases, rendering calls can be quite CPU intensive, especially
when very large numbers of objects are on-screen. Some browsers also forward all draw
calls to another thread to be processed in parallel, in which case the Draw calls
measurement will likely be an underestimate.
Engine / Other: the remaining time spent in Construct's runtime engine, which is the overall
estimated CPU with the events, scripts, plugin/behavior processing, and draw calls times
subtracted away. This covers the general runtime overhead. It sometimes also includes time
spent running scripts in your project - see the Scripts category description for more details.

Page 139 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE DEBUGGER 'GPU PROFILER' TAB
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/debugger/gpu-profiletab

Paid plans only The GPU profiler tab provides a more detailed breakdown of the estimated GPU
usage. This covers work done to render the project's graphics, which is typically done on
separate hardware (the Graphics Processing Unit, or GPU). The project must be running
continuously for the profiler to be able to collect and display information. It then displays a
breakdown of the estimated GPU time spent on each layer. It updates once a second and the
values shown are for the previous second only.

It must be noted that the overall GPU usage is an estimate to begin with, and all other values are
therefore estimates as well. However it is usually sufficient to identify which layers are
responsible if the GPU usage is high.
GPU measurements can be unreliable, especially when the system is largely idle. Modern
devices can deliberately slow down the GPU if not fully loaded in order to save power. This
means work takes longer to get done, and these measurements will misleadingly return a
higher measurement, since it's based on timing how long the work takes. It will generally
only be reliable in the device's maximum performance mode, i.e. under full load.
The measurements are based on the time it takes for the GPU hardware to do the rendering
work. It should be noted that these are hardware measurements, and do not involve software.
Therefore high GPU measurements are not usually the consequence of any particular software
or technology, and will be similar across different tools that send the same work to the GPU. A
high GPU measurement indicates that the capabilities of the hardware have been reached; the
solution is to adjust the design of the project to require less rendering work, such as fewer
objects, fewer layers, reduced use of effects, and so on.

Profiler breakdown
Page 140 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The GPU profiler works similarly to the CPU profiler, but it displays the approximate GPU time
required to render each layer. It shows both the Self time, which is the time spent to render that
layer alone, as well as the Total time, which is the self time plus the time spent rendering any
sub-layers. There is also a separate item for the layout itself, whose total time includes all layers,
and includes the time to process any layout effects, as well as any layout-level compositing that
is required (such as stretching the final image larger in low-quality fullscreen mode).
Layers that use their own texture will always require more GPU time to render, since they
require an additional step of copying the entire layer texture to the display afterwards. When
using a large viewport in high-quality fullscreen mode, this can consume a lot of GPU
bandwidth (also known as fillrate).

Page 141 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FILE EDITORS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/file-editors

Paid plans only Some kinds of project files added to the Project Bar can be edited directly in
Construct using one of the following file editors. See the section on each editor for more
information.
Array files (stored in JSON format) for the Array object can be viewed and edited with the
Array editor.
Dictionary files (stored in JSON format) for the Dictionary object can be viewed and edited
with the Dictionary editor.
Any other text-based file can be viewed and edited with the Text editor.

Opening the file editors
To open a file editor, start by adding a new file in the Files folder of the Project Bar. For more
information, see project files.

Page 142 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ARRAY EDITOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/file-editors/array-editor

Paid plans only The Array editor allows editing an array data file for the Array object. The data
you enter can be loaded at runtime by loading the project file in to the Array object. It provides a
visual way to set the initial data for an Array. The Array Editor appears when editing or adding an
array data file (in JSON format) in the Project Bar.

The Array Editor

Opening the Array Editor
To open the Array Editor in a new project, start by adding a new Array file in the Files folder of the
Project Bar. For more information, see project files.

Editing arrays
Initially the array is sized to 1 x 1, which means there is just one cell available. Use the Width and
Height settings to change how many cells are available. This determines how many rows and
columns appear in the editor, allowing you to enter more data.
Enter values in cells simply by typing in them. You can also navigate between cells using Tab or
Ctrl + Arrow keys on the keyboard. Note that the type of cells are determined automatically: if
you enter a number (e.g. 4.2), the value is set to a number type, otherwise it is saved as a text
string.
Right-click a cell to open a context menu with options to clear, insert or delete rows and
columns.

Editing 3D arrays

Page 143 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The Array Editor only displays a 2D grid of numbers, like a spreadsheet. However you can create
a 3D array by setting the Depth greater than 1. For example if the width, height and depth are all
10, then there are 1000 elements in a 10 x 10 x 10 array.
To allow editing 3D arrays conveniently, you simply set which Z index you are editing, and edit
values in that 2D plane of the array. Use the Sheet setting to move between each 2D "sheet" of
the 3D array and edit them separately. This allows you to set all the values in a 3D array, while
only editing a 2D section at a time.

Page 144 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

DICTIONARY EDITOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/file-editors/dictionaryeditor

Paid plans only The Dictionary editor allows editing a dictionary data file for the Dictionary
object. The data you enter can be loaded at runtime by loading the project file in to the Dictionary
object. It provides a visual way to set the initial data for a Dictionary. The Dictionary Editor
appears when editing or adding an dictionary data file (in JSON format) in the Project Bar.

The Dictionary Editor

Opening the Dictionary Editor
To open the Dictionary Editor in a new project, start by adding a new Dictionary file in the Files
folder of the Project Bar. For more information, see project files.

Editing dictionaries
Initially the dictionary has a single item, which means there is just one row available. Use the
Size setting to change how many items are available. This determines how many rows appear in
the editor, allowing you to enter more data. Each row represents a key in the dictionary (in the left
column) and its associated value (in the right column).
Enter values in cells simply by typing in them. You can also navigate between cells using Tab or
Ctrl + Arrow keys on the keyboard. Note that keys are always stored as strings, and the type of
values are determined automatically: if you enter a number (e.g. 4.2), the value is set to a number
type, otherwise it is saved as a text string.
Right-click a cell to open a context menu with options to clear, insert or delete rows.

De-duplicating rows
Dictionaries associate a value with a key. Due to the nature of dictionaries, there cannot be two
identical keys, since there can only be one value per key. If you accidentally enter two identical

Page 145 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

keys, they will both highlight in red. You can click the Automatically deduplicate keys button to
add numerical suffixes to any duplicated keys to automatically fix this problem.

Page 146 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TEXT EDITOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/file-editors/text-editor

Paid plans only The Text editor allows editing text-based files in the project. These can be in a
range of formats, such as plain text, comma-separated values (CSV), or bundled JSON, XML,
HTML, CSS or JavaScript files. The data you enter can be loaded at runtime by loading the
project file. The Text Editor appears when editing or adding any text-based file in the Project Bar.

The Text Editor

Opening the Text Editor
To open the Text Editor in a new project, start by adding a text-based file in the Files folder of the
Project Bar. For more information, see project files.

Using the Text Editor
Using the Text Editor to edit long pieces of text/data in a project file is often a lot more
convenient than trying to paste large amounts of text data in to events or in to Text objects.
The Text Editor provides a number of features including:
Line numbering
Syntax highlighting for a range of formats
Code folding (collapsing code sections)
Find/replace/replace all, including with regular expressions
New file templates for formats like HTML

Page 147 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ADD CONDITION/ACTION DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/add-conditionaction

The Add Condition dialog and Add Action dialog are very similar so they are both documented
here. These dialogs allow you to add or edit a condition or action in an event sheet.
Adding a condition or action takes three steps:
1

Choose the object type that has the condition or action

2

Choose the condition or action in that object type

3

Enter parameters, if any, such as the X and Y co-ordinate for Set Position.

The Next and Back buttons can be used to move forwards and backwards through these steps.

Step 1: Choose the object
In this step a list of all the object types in the project is shown. The System object (which
represents built-in features) always appears first, and the rest of the objects are listed in
alphabetical order. If object types are arranged in to subfolders Paid plans only in the Project Bar,
then folders also appear in this dialog.

Double-click an object to choose it, or a folder to open it. Typing in the search box in the topright can quickly filter the list if there are many objects. Searching lists results from all folders.
Page 148 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The conditions and actions each object contains is related to the kind of object it is (e.g. Sprite,
Keyboard or Audio). For example, to locate the Play sound action in the Add Action dialog, first
double-click the Audio object. Remember the System object contains some conditions which
can be used for any object, such as Pick random and For Each.

Step 2: Choose the condition or action
In this step a list of all the conditions or actions available for the chosen object is displayed.
They are arranged in to related categories. Below a list of the System object's conditions is
shown.

Some conditions and actions are very commonly used, such as Start of layout or On collision. To
help you identify these quickly, commonly used conditions and actions are highlighted with a
yellow background.
Double-click a condition or action to choose it. As before, typing in the search box can help
quickly locate a condition or action in the list.
For more information on each condition or action, see the reference section of the manual. If the
chosen object has any behaviors, they may add extra conditions and actions in to the dialog as
well.
Some conditions and actions require parameters. For example, the Set position action for a
Sprite requires the X and Y co-ordinates to be entered. This is done in the Parameters dialog in
the next step. However, some conditions and actions do not use any parameters, such as the
Destroy action. In this case once the condition or action is chosen the process is complete.

Page 149 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Functions and custom actions both provide ways to add your own items to the list of available
actions.

Step 3: Enter parameters
If the chosen condition or action requires parameters, the Parameters dialog appears for the
parameters to be entered in to. For more information, see the manual entry for the Parameters
dialog.

Page 150 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE ADDON MANAGER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/addonmanager

The Addon Manager shows a detailed list of all addons (plugins, behaviors, effects and themes)
available in Construct 3. It can be opened via Menu►View►Addon Manager.
By default built-in addons are included in the list. Third-party addons appear at the top so you
can easily see what you have installed. You can also uncheck Show built-in in the toolbar to
reduce the list to only your installed addons. The search field also allows filtering the list to help
you find an addon.
You can find a list of third-party addons on the Addon section of the website, including some
additional official addons such as Steamworks for Steam integration. See Installing third-party
addons for more information about how to install and uninstall additional addons.
The Addon Manager can also identify if updates for any installed addons are available. This is
enabled by default according to the Check for updates for installed addons setting in the Settings
dialog. If any updates are detected, it will show a notification when the editor starts up. Addons
with updates available can be found by checking Show updates only. Addons can be updated
individually by right-clicking on them, or you can install all available updates with the Update all
button.
Third-party addons can be bundled with projects Paid plans only, so you don't need to install all
the addons it uses when moving to a different system. For more information, see the Bundle
addons project property.

Page 151 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CORDOVA OPTIONS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/cordovaoptions

Paid plans only The Cordova options dialog is used to change settings for an Android or iOS
export, both of which are built with Cordova.
For more information, also refer to the tutorial How to publish mobile apps.

The Cordova options dialog

The dialog shown is for an Android export, but the appearance is similar for an iOS export. The
following options are available.
Min. version

Choose the minimum Android or iOS version that the app will support. A lower minimum
version will make your app available on a greater number of devices on the market. On the
other hand a higher minimum version ensures your app runs on more modern systems with
better features and performance, and often correlates with higher-spec hardware.
Target version

(Android exports only) This field displays the Target API level that Construct has configured
for your app, displayed as both the Android API level and the corresponding Android version
number. This is different to the minimum version and is set by Construct so is not
changeable. It is usually updated annually when the Google Play publishing requirements

Page 152 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

specify a new required target API level. If you need an updated target API level, make sure
you are using the latest version of Construct, or check the latest beta release.
Android build

(Android exports only) Choose what to export. For more details see the tutorial How to
publish mobile apps.
Cordova project: export a Cordova project which can be built locally with the Cordova
CLI, or used with a different build service.
Android Studio project: use Cordova to generate an Android Studio project, which can
then be opened in Android Studio for customisation, testing and completing an Android
build.
Debug APK: build a test Android application (APK) via the Scirra Mobile App Build
Service. Debug APKs are intended for testing only. Normally to install a debug APK on an
Android device requires adjusting the system settings to enable a special developer
mode. Debug APKs cannot be published to the Google Play Store.
Unsigned release APK: build a release Android application (APK) via the Scirra Mobile
App Build Service. Release APKs are intended for publishing to the Google Play store and
must first be signed before they can be published. Additionally you cannot normally
install a release APK to a device unless it comes from the Google Play store. If you
simply wish to test your app without publishing it, use a Debug APK instead.
Unsigned Android App Bundle: build a release Android application, in the new Android
App Bundle (ABB) format, via the Scirra Mobile Build Service. ABBs are intended for
publishing to the Google Play store and must first be signed before they can be
published. An ABB file cannot be directly installed onto a device. You should not use
these for local testing
Signed Debug APK: build and sign a test Android application (APK) via the Scirra Mobile
App Build Service. While signing a debug APK is not required to install it onto a device,
some services require that you sign the APK with your publishing certificate before you
can test them ( such as Google Play Games ). Under most situations you will be fine to
use an Unsigned Debug APK.
Signed Release APK: build and sign a release Android application (APK) via the Scirra
Mobile Build Service. This is intended for publishing to the Google Play store, it is already
signed so can be uploaded directly to the store.

Page 153 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Signed Android App Bundle: build and signed a release Android application, in the new
Android App Bundle (ABB) format, via the Scirra Mobile Build Service. This is intended for
publishing to the Google Play store, it is already signed so can be uploaded directly to the
store. An ABB file cannot be directly installed onto a device.

URL whitelist

A space separated list of URLs that the app can ask the system to open. The default option
http://*/* https://*/* allows the application to open any http or https URL.

Android Version Code

(Android exports only) Specify a Android version code for this export. The initial value is
automatically calculated from the project's version number.
iOS build

(iOS exports only) Choose what to export. For more details see the tutorial How to publish
mobile apps.
Cordova project: export a Cordova project which can be built locally with the Cordova
CLI, or used with a different build service.
Xcode project: use Cordova to generate an Xcode project, which can then be opened in
Xcode on a Mac for customisation, testing and completing an iOS build.

Hide status bar

When the app is running, hide the system status bar if possible. This allows the app to use
up more space on the screen.
Require Vibrate permission

Enable if your app makes use of vibrating the device to ensure the app has permission to do
this.
Require Camera permission

Enable if your app makes use of camera input via the User Media object to ensure the app
has permission to access this.
Require Microphone permission

Page 154 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enable if your app makes use of microphone input via the User Media object to ensure the
app has permission to access this.
Choose Keystore
Create Keystore

(Signed Android builds only) Choose a keystore from the filesystem, or create a new one, for
use in signing the build.
Key Name

(Signed Android builds only) The name of the key within the keystore you wish to use for
signing the build. This is referred to as the "alias" by the create keystore dialog.
Key Store password

(Signed Android builds only) The password for the keystore you have selected.
Key password

(Signed Android builds only) The password for the key you have chosen in the keystore.

Page 155 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CREATE NEW OBJECT TYPE
DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/create-newobject

The Create New Object Type dialog typically appears after double-clicking a space in a Layout
View. It allows you to choose the kind of object type to add to the project. Each kind is known as
a plugin. Selecting a plugin then creates a new object type based on that plugin. See Project
Structure for a description of the difference between object types and instances. The plugin
reference section of the manual includes documentation for each plugin.

Plugins are categorised in to related groups. Within each group they are arranged alphabetically.
Selecting an item will display a brief description summarising what the plugin does at the
bottom of the dialog. Typing in the search box in the top right can quickly filter down the list to
help you find what you are looking for.
If you regularly use the same few plugins, you can right-click them and choose Pin to top, and it
will be kept at the top of the dialog for quicker access. If you change your mind, you can rightclick a pinned plugin and choose Unpin to return it to its usual location. This also works for
adding behaviors and effects.
The Name field indicates what the name of the object type in the project will be after you add it.
By default this will be a numbered version of the plugin name e.g. Sprite2, Sprite3 etc. It is a good

Page 156 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

idea to give objects descriptive names so you don't get confused when working on your project.
You can enter a descriptive name in this field which the object will use when added, but if you
don't you can still easily rename objects via the Properties Bar or Project Bar.
Double-click an item to add it to the project. If the object can be placed in a layout and a Layout
View is open, the cursor turns to a crosshair for you to place the first instance of that object. For
objects with images or animations (like Sprite), after you have placed this instance the
Animations editor will appear to design the image or animations for the object.
Other kinds of object (like the Keyboard and Audio object) do not need placing in a layout. After
adding one of these objects, the dialog closes but there is no need to place it anywhere. Instead,
a notification appears indicating that it is available to the entire project. This type of object can
only be added once, and will show as disabled in the list if the dialog is brought up again.

Page 157 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ADD/EDIT CUSTOM ACTION DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/custom-action

The add/edit function dialog appears when adding or editing a custom action.

This dialog has the following fields.
Object

Click the button to choose the object type or family the custom action will belong to.
Name

The name of the custom action. This will appear in the Add Action dialog and in the event
sheet to identify this custom action. Object types are allowed to add a custom action with
the same name as a family custom action, in which case the object type's custom action
works as an override.
Description Optional

An optional description of the custom action, for your organisational purposes. This is
displayed in the Add action dialog and can be a helpful reminder of what the custom action
does.
Category Optional

An optional category for the custom action, for your organisational purposes. Custom
actions with the same category are grouped together in the Add action dialog, providing a
way to arrange related custom actions together. This field autocompletes with existing
category names used, making it easier to use the same category names.
Page 158 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Copy all picked

By default custom actions run with only the same instances of the given object picked as the
action that called it. Check Copy all picked to instead run the custom action with the same
instances of all objects picked as the action that called it, much like the Copy picked setting
for functions.
Asynchronous

Tick to mark the custom action as asynchronous (or async for short). This means calls to
this custom action can be used with the System action Wait for previous actions to complete
if the custom action does any of its own waiting. Note this has a small performance
overhead, so for best performance leave this disabled if you don't need it.

Page 159 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE EASE EDITOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/ease-editor

This editor enables the possibility of creating custom ease functions to be used with timelines
and tweens. This is a little bit of extra work when compared to the built in ease functions, but it
makes it possible to customize your timeline animations and tweens even further.
The most basic use is that of a cubic curve with a beginning, end and anchor points. This allows
variations on all the basic ease functions (e.g. Sinusoidal, Back etc). It is also possible to add
additional points in the middle of the curve to create variations of the more complex curves (e.g.
Bounce, Elastic). Of course it is also possible to create completely original curves by using
multiple points.

Using the ease editor
Here is a short summary on how to create eases, use the ease editor and finally apply a custom
ease.

Step 1: Create a custom ease
Right-click Eases folder in the Project Bar and select Add ease.

Page 160 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Step 2: Open the editor
Right-click on the newly created ease element under the Eases folder, then select the Open
option or Double-click the ease element in the Project Bar.

Step 3: Make changes
With the ease editor open, you can make changes to the curve by dragging the colored handles.
The default ease has four points, the start and end points (yellow squares) and the two anchor
points (green and red squares). In any ease it is not possible to change the position of the start
and end points. This means that with the default curve you will only be able to move the anchor
points.
If more ease keyframes are added in the middle of the curve, it is possible to move those.
There are some limitations to the position the anchor points can take in relation to the main
points, but those will be covered later.
The default ease will be something similar to the built in In Out Sinusoidal ease function.

Step 4: Use the custom ease
Once a custom ease is complete, it can be used in any of the places the built in eases are
available. The names of the custom eases will appear after the names of the built in ease
functions in all the relevant places. These include the Properties Bar, Timeline Bar and Tween
behavior.

Interface
Handles
The different handles are the main method to edit the ease function.

Page 161 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Main Handle: The main points, or keyframes of the curve are represented by yellow squares.
This points are positions the curve must include. More points can be added to the curve to
edit how it looks like. Depending on the "Purpose" of the curve the starting point and ending
point might not be editable.
Anchor Handle: The anchor points of the curve, represented by green and red squares. Each
pair of main points has two anchor points in between them. The first anchor point of a sub
section of a curve will always be green, while the second anchor point will always be red.
Anchor points can never go outside the range defined by the two main points that contain
them. Dragging the main handles will force anchor handles out of their previous position to
keep the previously mentioned condition.

Colored Lines
These are the main visual aid to understand how the curve will behave when it is used.
Green line: The green line represents the ease function itself. The closer it is to the red line,
the closer the timeline or tween using the ease will be to the initial value. Going bellow the
red line means the animation using the ease will be going past the starting value, an example
of this is the In Back built in ease. The closer it is to the blue line, the closer the timeline or
tween using the ease will be to the ending value. Going above the blue line means the
animation using the ease will be going past the ending value, an example of this is the Out