# Manual Construct 3  Parte 5 (líneas 48016000)

## Resumen
- Back built in ease. (línea 7)
- Red line: Represents the starting value of the ease. (línea 8)
- Blue line: Represents the ending value of the ease. (línea 9)
- Horizontal and vertical axis (línea 11)
- Each axis of the graph shown by the editor has a meaning that will help you to better understand (línea 12)
- what the ease function will be doing. (línea 13)
- Horizontal axis: This axis represents time. The further along the axis, the closer the (línea 14)
- animation using the ease is to finishing. The marker numbers are there to help identify what (línea 15)
- The image bellow shows a custom ease, with multiple keyframes as well as their corresponding (línea 19)
- anchor points. (línea 20)
- Context Menu (línea 26)
- There are two options available in the context menu. (línea 27)
- Add ease keyframe: Add a new keyframe to the curve. (línea 28)
- Delete ease keyframe: Remove an existing keyframe from the curve. The first and last (línea 29)
- keyframes can not be deleted. (línea 30)
- Invert ease: Invert all the keyframes in the ease to produce the opposite ease. (línea 31)
- Toggle linear and cubic: Toggle between a cubic ease and a linear ease. (línea 32)
- corresponding segment a linear transition. (línea 34)
- corresponding segment a cubic transition. (línea 36)
- Toolbar (línea 38)

## Contenido

Back built in ease.
Red line: Represents the starting value of the ease.
Blue line: Represents the ending value of the ease.

Horizontal and vertical axis
Each axis of the graph shown by the editor has a meaning that will help you to better understand
what the ease function will be doing.
Horizontal axis: This axis represents time. The further along the axis, the closer the
animation using the ease is to finishing. The marker numbers are there to help identify what
the ease will be doing at 25%, 50% and 75% completion.
Vertical axis: This represents the value the ease will produce. 0% is the starting value of the
timeline or tween using the ease, while 100% represents the ending value.
The image bellow shows a custom ease, with multiple keyframes as well as their corresponding
anchor points.

Page 162 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Context Menu
There are two options available in the context menu.
Add ease keyframe: Add a new keyframe to the curve.
Delete ease keyframe: Remove an existing keyframe from the curve. The first and last
keyframes can not be deleted.
Invert ease: Invert all the keyframes in the ease to produce the opposite ease.
Toggle linear and cubic: Toggle between a cubic ease and a linear ease.
Make segment linear: Toggle the "Segment" property of a keyframe to make the
corresponding segment a linear transition.
Make segment cubic: Toggle the "Segment" property of a keyframe to make the
corresponding segment a cubic transition.

Toolbar

The toolbar at the top shows a few useful fields and buttons:
Name: Change the name of the ease.
Purpose: This property can take the values of "Any" or "Expressions only" and affects how the
ease can be edited.
Position: The inputs show the position of the last handle that was clicked on. Useful to make
more precise adjustments that what is possible by dragging with a pointer device.

Page 163 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Segment: This property is keyframe specific and can take the values of "Linear" or "Cubic". It
affect how the ease behaves from the point where a keyframe is until the next one.
Undo: Works like elsewhere in the application.
Invert ease: Invert all the keyframes in the ease to produce the opposite ease.
Toggle linear and cubic: Toggle between a cubic ease and a linear ease.
Zoom: Works like elsewhere in the application

Editing built-in eases
When the ease editor is opened from the common Ease editor property of a Timeline element,
the editor can be opened showing a built-in ease.
In this case a new custom ease is created to look just like the corresponding built-in ease, it is
also given a unique name and can be edited normally.
After closing the editor, if any meaningful changes where made, the new custom ease is added
to the project and assigned to the corresponding timeline element. If no meaningful change was
made after the editor is closed, everything is discarded.

The special "Default" ease value
In the case of opening the editor from a timeline element which is using the special "Default"
value the Ease property can take, C3 will look up the corresponding timeline's inheritance
structure for a concrete ease value to use, be it custom or a built-in one.
After closing the editor, any changes are applied to the timeline element which had the real ease,
rather than the element which was using the special "Default" value.

The "Purpose" property
As mentioned earlier, this property can take the following values:
Any

Can be used anywhere where custom eases are supported. Their first and last keyframes
can not be edited at all, that means the ease is bounded to start at a value of 0 and end at a
value of 1.
Expressions only

Can only be used as argument in expressions that support providing a custom ease, such as
the Ease expression of the Timeline Controller plugin. This purpose allows to edit the first
and last keyframes of the ease, allowing it to start at values different from 0 and end in
values different from 1.

Page 164 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If a custom ease is already used in a place which expects it to have the "Any" purpose, such as
Tweens, then the property will not be able to be changed. The same goes if it is already used in a
place which expects the "Expressions only" prupose.

Page 165 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ADD/EDIT EVENT GROUP DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/event-group

The Add/Edit Event Group dialog contains settings for a group of events.

This dialog has the following fields.
Name

A name identifying this event group, displayed as its title in the event sheet. When enabling or
disabling event groups, the name identifies the group.
Description Optional

An optional description summarising what the events in the group do, for your organisational
purposes. This is displayed beneath the group title in the event sheet.
Active on start

Determine whether or not the event group is enabled when the project begins. If this is
unchecked, the event group is disabled, and none of the events inside it will run until it is
enabled by the Set group active system action. Groups which are inactive on start are
displayed with faded out text in their header.

Page 166 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ADD/EDIT EVENT VARIABLE DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/event-variable

The Add/Edit Event Variable dialog allows you to change the details of a global or local variable
in an event sheet.

The dialog has the following fields.
Name

The name identifies the event variable. This is typed in to expressions to retrieve the value of
the event variable. Some names cannot be used, like the names of system expressions,
since they would conflict when entering an expression.
Type

The type specifies what kind of value the variable holds. This can be Number, String (text), or
Boolean (an on/off value). The type of an event variable does not change - you can't store
text in a Number variable and vice versa.
Once you create events that use this variable, its type cannot be changed, since that
could make the events invalid.

Initial value

The initial number for a Number variable, the initial text for a String variable, or a checkbox
for a Boolean variable to specify if it is initially true (checked) or false (unchecked). Note that
unlike expressions, the initial text entered here does not need double quotes around it. In

Page 167 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

other words, Hello is a valid entry, and if you enter "Hello" (as you would in an expression) the
initial string will include the double quotes.
Description Optional

An optional comment you can use to briefly describe what the variable is used for. It is
displayed next to the name in the editor to help remind you what to use the variable for.
Static

Only applies to local variables. By default, local variables reset their value to the initial value
every tick. However if Static is checked, the local variable's value will persist permanently, like
a global variable. Static local variables differ from global variables in that they can still only
be used within their scope. Global variables always hold their values permanently so the
Static option does not apply to them. For more information about local variables, see Event
Variables.
Constant

Make a variable read-only. You will be able to compare and retrieve the variable, but not
change its value using any actions. This is useful for referring to a number like the maximum
number of lives, without having to repeat the number in your events. If you want to change
the value, there is only one place you need to change, which is a lot easier than having to
hunt down the multiple places you entered a particular number in your events. According to
programming convention, the names of constants are displayed in upper case, e.g.
MAX_LIVES.

Page 168 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE EXPORT MANAGER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/exportmanager

The Export Manager displays a list of the last few projects you've exported from Construct. This
helps you find an exported project again if you forget to save the resulting file, or otherwise lose
it. It can be opened via Menu►View►Export Manager. Note only the last few exports are kept
and old ones are automatically deleted, so don't rely on it to keep everything - be sure to save
exported files at the time you export them.

To download a previous export again, select it in the list and click the Download button in the
toolbar. If you need to free up storage space you can also manually delete saved exports with
the Delete button in the toolbar.

Building Cordova exports
Paid plans only If you export for Android or iOS and select the Cordova project option, the result
is a zipped Cordova project. You can then choose to build it by selecting it in the Export Manager
and clicking the Build button on the toolbar. This will then take you through the steps to build a
mobile app with Construct 3's build service. Note it's quicker to select one of the other build
options at the time you export for Android or iOS, but this can be useful if you forget, or want to
run more than one kind of build.

Page 169 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE EXPRESSIONS DICTIONARY
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/expressionsdictionary

The Expressions Dictionary lists all the expressions available in your project. This saves you
having to remember them or look them up elsewhere. It is shown floating next to the Parameters
dialog. It can be hidden or shown by clicking the Find expressions link on the Parameters dialog
or by pressing F4. By default it is semitransparent so it does not distract you while entering
parameters. However on small screens if there is no room to display it without overlapping the
Parameters dialog, then it is hidden by default.

The search box in the top right can be used to quickly filter the list.
Double-click an object to list all its expressions. Descriptions are also shown next to each
expression to help indicate what value will be retrieved. Double-click one of the listed
expressions to insert it to the current expression in the Parameters dialog. Click the Back button
in the caption to return to the object list.
Behavior expressions are also shown for objects with behaviors. The System page also lists all
system expressions as well as all the global and local variables in scope (see Event Variables).

Page 170 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ADD/EDIT FUNCTION DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/function

The add/edit function dialog appears when adding or editing a function.

This dialog has the following fields.
Name

The name of the function. Note that if the function is used as an expression (its Return type
is not None), the name must be a valid expression, so cannot contain special characters or
whitespace. Functions used as actions (with a Return type of None) can use any name.
Description Optional

An optional description of the function, for your organisational purposes. This is displayed in
the Add action dialog or Expressions dictionary depending on the return type of the function,
and can be a helpful reminder of what the function does.
Category Optional

An optional category for the function, for your organisational purposes. Functions with the
same category are grouped together in the Add action dialog and Expressions dictionary,
providing a way to arrange related functions together. This field autocompletes with existing
category names used in the project, making it easier to use the same category names.
Return type

The return type of the function. This also determines whether the function is used as an
action or an expression. Functions with a return type of None are used as actions; otherwise
they are used as expressions. A return type of Any means the function can return either a
Page 171 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

number or a string. Functions with a return type must have a name which is a valid
expression, so cannot contain special characters or whitespace.
Once a function is used in your project, the return type cannot be changed.

Copy picked

Normally calling a function will run its actions with all objects reset to picked. For example
calling a function that modifies a Sprite will modify all instances of that Sprite regardless of
whether any conditions picked specific instances before calling the function. Enabling Copy
picked means the function will run with the same picked instances as the event that calls it,
so actions still run on the same instances picked by any previous conditions.
Asynchronous

Tick to mark the function as asynchronous (or async for short). This means calls to this
function can be used with the System action Wait for previous actions to complete if the
function does any of its own waiting. Note this has a small performance overhead, so for
best performance leave this disabled if you don't need it.

Page 172 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ADD/EDIT FUNCTION PARAMETER
DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/functionparameter

The Add/Edit Function Parameter dialog allows you to change the details of a function
parameter. Since function parameters work similarly to local variables, the dialog is also similar
to the Add/edit event variable dialog.

The dialog has the following fields.
Name

The name identifies the function parameter. This is typed in to expressions to retrieve the
value of the parameter. Some names cannot be used, like the names of system expressions,
since they would conflict when entering an expression. The name is also displayed when
calling the function.
Type

The type specifies what kind of value the parameter holds. This can be Number, String (text),
or Boolean (an on/off value, displayed as a checkbox). The type of a parameter does not
change - you can't pass text for a number variable and vice versa.
Once you create events that call the function, its parameter types cannot be changed,
since that could make the events invalid.

Initial value

The initial number for a Number parameter, the initial text for a Text parameter, or a checkbox
for a Boolean variable to specify if it is initially true (checked) or false (unchecked). Note that

Page 173 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

unlike expressions, the initial text entered here does not need double quotes around it. In
other words, Hello is a valid entry, and if you enter "Hello" (as you would in an expression) the
initial string will include the double quotes. The default parameter value is pre-filled when
calling the function, or used if the function ends up being called with missing parameters.
Description Optional

An optional comment you can use to briefly describe what the parameter is used for. It is
displayed in the editor when calling the function to help remind you what to use the variable
for.

Page 174 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE IMPORT AUDIO DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/import-audio

The Import Audio dialog allows audio files to be added to the project from disk. It is accessed by
selecting Import Sounds or Import Music from the right-click menu of the Sounds or Music
folders in the Project Bar. Be sure to add the Audio object to your project to play back sounds
and music.

There are two ways to import audio files:
1

Click the Import audio button, which opens a file picker to choose some local files to import

2

Drag-and-drop some local files in to the area that says Drag and drop audio files here

As soon as you choose some files or drop them in, Construct will encode them to WebM Opus
for best compatibility across platforms. It is recommended to import 16-bit PCM WAV or FLAC
files to ensure Construct can encode them without any quality loss. If you import files which are
already WebM Opus, they will simply be copied to the project.
Construct will use all available CPU cores to encode imported audio, which is useful if you need
to import a lot of audio files. The progress of encoding is displayed in the table of files. Once all
encoding is done, you can click Import to add them to the project.

Categorise audio files correctly
Page 175 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

It is important to organise audio files appropriately. Audio files in the Sounds project folder are
loaded completely before playing, but files in the Music folder are streamed. This means if a
music track is accidentally put in the Sounds folder, it would have to load completely before it
can start playing. However, audio in the Music folder can start playing much more quickly since
it is streamed, and also uses less memory for long tracks.

Platform compatibility
There is not one audio format that can play across all browsers and platforms with built-in
support. To avoid having to use multiple audio formats, Construct uses its own WebM Opus
decoder for Safari & iOS, which are the last platforms left that do not have built-in support for
WebM Opus.
In most browsers Construct can transcode AAC or MP3 audio for you. However if the browser
does not support decoding these formats, Construct may be unable to transcode these formats
and may show a warning. It is strongly recommended to use WebM Opus for all audio in
Construct projects, as it is the only format that is guaranteed to play on all platforms. You will
need to use other software to encode your audio to WebM Opus, and then import the .webm files
to your project. Construct will simply copy these files in to your project if they are already WebM
Opus.

Import formats
The following formats can be imported to Construct. PCM WAV or FLAC files are recommended.
PCM WAV (.wav): converted to WebM Opus
FLAC (.flac): converted to WebM Opus
WebM (.webm): copied to project if Opus, else converted to Opus
MPEG-4 AAC (.m4a): converted to WebM Opus in most browsers (note this is lossy)
MP3 (.mp3): converted to WebM Opus in most browsers (note this is lossy)
Ogg Vorbis (.ogg): converted to WebM Opus (note this is lossy)
Ogg Opus (.opus): converted to WebM Opus (note this is lossy)
If you need to import a different format, you'll need to find third-party software to convert it. If
you can, convert it directly to WebM Opus, as that is the preferred format for Construct.

Playback preference
Projects only need to use WebM Opus files to support all platforms. However in some cases,
especially with older projects, audio files may be available in multiple formats in the project. In
that case Construct uses the following order of preference to pick which to play at runtime. The
first format in the list that has built-in support is used. If none of the available formats has builtin support, and there is a WebM Opus file available, then Construct falls back to the software
decoder last of all.

Page 176 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

1

WebM Opus

2

Ogg Vorbis (used by Construct 2)

3

MPEG-4 AAC

4

MP3

5

Software decode WebM Opus

Page 177 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ADD/EDIT INSTANCE VARIABLE
DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/instancevariable

The Add/Edit Instance Variable dialog allows you to set the name, type and initial value for an
instance variable in an object type or family.

The dialog has the following fields.
Name

The name identifies the instance variable. This is typed in to expressions after the object
name (e.g. Sprite.MyVariable ) to retrieve the value of the instance variable. Some names
cannot be used if they conflict with the names of the object's other expressions or behaviors.
Type

The type specifies what kind of value the instance variable holds. This can be Number, Text
(also known as a string), or Boolean (an on/off value). The type of an instance variable does
not change - you can't store text in a Number variable and vice versa. Also note that once you
create events that use this variable, its type cannot be changed, since that could make the
events invalid.
Initial value

The initial number for a Number variable, the initial text for a Text variable, or a checkbox for
a Boolean variable to specify if it is initially true (checked) or false (unchecked). Note that
unlike expressions, the initial text entered here does not need double quotes around it. In
other words, Hello is a valid entry, and if you enter "Hello" (as you would in an expression) the
initial string will include the double quotes.

Page 178 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Description Optional

An optional comment you can use to briefly describe what the variable is used for. It is
displayed in the Properties Bar description panel when the instance variable's property is
selected.
Show in Properties Bar

By default all instance variables are shown when listing properties in the Properties Bar. This
can be unchecked to hide it from the listed properties. However it will still be available for use
in event sheets. Hiding instance variables can be useful if you have a large number of them
and some are only used in event sheets.

Page 179 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE NEW PROJECT DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/new-project

The New project dialog appears when you create a new project. It allows you to specify some
basic details about the project, such as its name. New projects can be created from the Start
Page or the main menu.
All values are optional so you can simply click OK right away to get a basic new project with
default settings. Note the Alt + N keyboard shortcut creates a new project skipping this dialog,
as if you clicked OK after it opened.

The dialog has the following fields.
Name

Choose the name of the project. Construct uses this to identify your project.
Choose preset

Select a preset from this list to fill out the rest of the fields quickly. For example choosing
1080p landscape will automatically fill out a 1080p viewport size and set the landscape
orientation.
Viewport size

Set the size, in pixels, of the view area in the game. This corresponds to the Viewport size
project property. The viewport size also defines the aspect ratio of the project, which is
displayed to the right.
Orientations

Page 180 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Whether to lock the orientation on mobile devices. Any allows the display to switch between
portrait and landscape automatically; choosing either portrait or landscape will attempt to
lock the orientation to prevent it changing, where supported. This corresponds to the
Orientations project property.
Start with

Choose the type of project to start with. Event sheet starts with an empty event sheet for
using Construct's block-based approach. Script instead starts with a template JavaScript file
for coding your game instead. See the Scripting overview for more information about the
scripting feature in Construct. You can easily switch between the two after creating a project
by adding a new event sheet or a new script file.
Optimize for pixel art

Check to apply settings that are more suitable for retro-style graphics. The following settings
are applied:
Pixel rounding is enabled
Letterbox integer scale fullscreen mode
Low fullscreen quality
Nearest sampling
These settings can be changed back any time after creating the project. For more
information on each, see project properties.

Page 181 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

NW.JS OPTIONS DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/nw-js-options

The NW.js options dialog allows you to customise an NW.js export Paid plans only.

The NW.js options dialog

The following options are available.
NW.js version

Choose which version of NW.js to export with. Each NW.js version is based on a Chromium
version. The Latest option auto-updates as new versions become available. It's
recommended to use the latest version for best features and performance, but some plugins
may require a specific version.
The first time you use each version it will need to be downloaded for the selected platforms.
You can manage the downloaded NW.js versions with the NW.js version manager.
Platforms

Select which platforms are exported. If the NW.js version needs to be downloaded, only the
checked platforms are downloaded. Unchecking platforms you don't need will save time
exporting and reduce the size of the exported files.
Package assets

Bundle all the project's files in to a single compressed file named package.nw. This reduces
the number of exported files and slightly obscures the asset files from browsing. However
Page 182 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

the file must be extracted on startup, which can cause long loading times for very large
projects. Disabling this just copies the project files to the same folder, which also allows for a
faster startup time.
Compress final zip

This only affects the final exported .zip file that Construct produces. Since the zip file can be
very large, especially when exporting for several platforms, compressing the final zip file can
take a long time. Disabling this option skips compression which can speed up the export, but
will produce a larger file.
Window frame

Whether the application window has the default operating system window frame around it.
This is typically a caption and border.
Resizable window

Whether the application window can be resized by the user. If disabled the window can still
be resized or made fullscreen using events.
Kiosk mode

Run the application in kiosk mode. This is intended for public computer displays. The
application runs fullscreen and blocks any access to the rest of the system.
Ignore GPU blacklist

Some systems with poor quality graphics drivers can end up crashing or causing severe
display glitches when running games. Browsers provide blacklists to recognise faulty drivers
or hardware and fall back to software rendering. This guarantees the game will work, but can
result in poor performance on such systems. Disabling this option always uses GPU
rendering which can be much faster, but can then run in to issues on systems with poor
quality drivers.
Enable DevTools

Whether the app should allow opening the Chrome DevTools by pressing F12 or using the
Inspect context menu option. This is useful for development purposes, but can be unwanted
when publishing especially if the F12 shortcut is meant to be used for something else.
Export for Steam

Change the configuration to improve compatibility with Steam. This sets the command line
options --in-process-gpu and --disable-windows10-custom-titlebar, and also forces the
window to constantly redraw to improve compatibility with the Steam Overlay.

Page 183 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Command line options

This option allows advanced users to customise the Chromium command-line arguments
used by NW.js.
In general, only the default settings (with no command-line arguments) are supported,
both by Scirra and by the Chromium developers. Support for various command-line
options may change over time, including changing how they work or removing support
for them. Use at your own risk.

Page 184 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

NW.JS VERSION MANAGER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/nw-js-versionmanager

The NW.js version manager allows management of which NW.js versions and platforms are
downloaded for use with NW.js exports Paid plans only.

The NW.js version manager

Downloading NW.js versions ahead of time ensures that it will be reasonably fast to export with
that version. If you export to an NW.js version that is not downloaded, it will be downloaded
during the export process. On slow connections the download can take some time. The NW.js
version manager allows you to download in the background so you can continue working on
your project and export when the download is ready. Additionally NW.js downloads can use up a
lot of storage space, so the NW.js version manager also allows deleting previous downloads.
The total storage space used by NW.js is displayed in the footer of the dialog.
Double-click an NW.js version to open a list of platforms available with that version. Then you
can double-click a platform to start a download for it. The download will continue in the
background, so you can close the NW.js version manager and continue working on your project
while the download completes. As a shortcut to download all platforms for an NW.js version,
right-click it in the list and select Download.
To delete old versions, right-click the entry either in the main NW.js version list, or an individual
platform in the platform list, and select Delete.

Page 185 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE PARAMETERS DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/parameters

The Parameters dialog appears after the Add condition/action dialog, or when editing a
condition or action. It allows you to enter parameters such as the X and Y co-ordinate for the
Sprite object's Set Position action (shown below). It does not appear for conditions or actions
which do not use any parameters, such as the Destroy action. Expressions can be entered for
many parameters, which can be anything from a simple value to a sophisticated mathematical
calculation.
The parameters that are displayed depend on the condition or action that was selected. To find
out more about what to enter for each field, check the related documentation in the Plugin
reference, Behavior reference or System reference.
The Expressions dictionary appears next to the Parameters dialog providing a list of all the
expressions you can enter. By default the Expressions panel is faded out unless you hover the
mouse over it. It can also be hidden or shown by clicking the Find expressions link or by pressing
F4. Note on small screens if there is no room to display the Expressions dictionary without
overlapping the Parameters dialog, then it is hidden by default.

Use the Expressions dictionary to locate system expressions, object expressions, behavior
expressions, global and local variables and instance variables. Alternatively you can use
autocomplete: just start typing, and a list of all the options appears. Additionally if you type as
far as the dot in an object expression (e.g. Sprite. ) a list of all the object's expressions
appears, shown below. This also appears after the dot when entering a behavior expression (e.g.
Sprite.8Direction. ). Use the Up and Down arrows to pick an item in the suggestions list, and
press Enter to insert it. This can help you enter expressions much more quickly.

Page 186 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Some expressions also show tips to help you remember how to use the expression, shown
below. This appears when you type the open bracket ( for the expression. This is most useful
for System expressions which tend to have multiple parameters.

Press Tab to move to the next parameter or Shift + Tab to move to the previous. Enter is also
a shortcut to press Done. (Note you may have to press Enter twice if autocomplete is showing:
once to choose the autocomplete entry, and again to close the dialog.)
If you make a mistake, the part of the expression which is wrong will be highlighted with a red
background. If you press Enter or Done when this is showing, a tip will appear with more
information about the problem.

Page 187 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE SETTINGS DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/settings

The Settings dialog allows you to change various settings for the Construct 3 editor. It can be
opened via the main menu.

User interface
Language

Select the language for the editor interface. Construct 3 must be reloaded after changing
this.
UI mode

Whether to use a desktop interface, a mobile interface, or automatically decide which to use
(the default). This can be useful to force tablets with a mouse and keyboard attached in to
desktop mode. Construct 3 must be reloaded after changing this.
Use simplified user interface

Hide advanced options from the user interface. This is intended to provide a simpler
interface for purposes such as classroom teaching with young students. For more
information about using this mode, see the tutorial Using the simplified user interface.
Enable Example Browser

When unchecked, both the Example Browser and all methods of opening it will be hidden. To
bring back the Example Browser, check this setting again and then reopen the Example
Browser (e.g. via Menu►View►Example browser).
Theme

Change the style of the editor interface to a different theme. A couple of alternative themes
are built-in. It's also possible to install third-party themes. Construct 3 must be reloaded after
changing this.
Enable UI animations

Enable animations in the user interface (UI), such as when opening menus, dialogs and so
on. If disabled then these actions will happen instantaneously without any kind of transition.
Enable UI effects

Page 188 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enable effects in the user interface (UI), such as shadows behind dialogs and menus. If
disabled these effects will be hidden, which can help improve performance on low-end
devices.
Enable notifications

Allow Construct to show information by making a small notification box appear in the corner
of the window. This is recommended since sometimes the information is significant, but if
they are distracting you can turn them off.
Show 'take a break' reminder every 2 hours

Enable a message displayed every 2 hours while the editor is open reminding you to take a
break. This is intended to encourage your digital well-being, as taking regular breaks is
important for healthy usage of computing devices. It is enabled by default, but can be turned
off, for example if you already have other software that shows such reminders.
Zoom with mouse wheel only

Normally to zoom the Layout View or Animations Editor, the Control or Command key must
be held down while scrolling the mouse wheel. Enabling this setting means no keyboard key
needs to be held down and scrolling the mouse wheel alone will zoom the view.
Use default icon color

Allow the current theme to specify the icon color. If disabled, the custom icon color setting
enables.
Custom icon color

If Use default icon color is disabled, this allows you to choose a custom color for icons in the
editor.
Enable multi-monitor features

Click to enable features designed to help when using multiple displays, including
remembering the position of windows across monitors. This may not be shown if the
browser does not support multi-monitor features. When the button is clicked, you may see a
permission prompt - be sure to allow permission for the multi-monitor features to take effect.
Reset user interface

Click to reset the size and position of all bars and dialogs to their defaults. Construct must
be reloaded after doing this.

Text / code editor
Page 189 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

These settings are for Construct's built-in text and code editor, such as when editing a
JavaScript file in the project.
Font size (px)

Set the font size used in text editors to a size in px.
Automatic indentation

Check to enable automatic indentation when editing code in the text editors.
Word wrap

Enable wrapping text at the edge of the text editor. If unchecked a horizontal scrollbar will
appear when text goes past the right edge of the text editor.
Enable code folding

Enables expand/collapse buttons in the margin of the code editor which allow for collapsing
or "folding" regions of code.
Use sticky scrolling

Enables a sticky header at the top of the code editor that shows the current class or function
declaration even after you've scrolled past it. This can be helpful in long functions or classes
to help you quickly see the context you are working in.
Show minimap

Enables the additional scaled-down view of the file by the scroll bar, called the "minimap".
Minimap scale

When the minimap is enabled, the size to display the minimap.

Save & backup
Default save location

Choose the default save location when pressing the 'Save' button on a new project. The
default depends on which save options the browser supports; where possible it defaults to
saving a local file, otherwise it defaults to cloud save.
Periodically back up active project

If enabled, Construct will periodically auto-save your project. This can help avoid lost work in
the event of a crash or hardware failure.
Page 190 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Backup location

Choose which save location to use for backups. By default this saves backups in the same
place your project is saved (e.g. on Google Drive if your project is saved on Google Drive).
However you can also set it to save to a specific cloud storage service, or a local folder on
the device (where supported).
Local backup folder

Choose a local folder to save backups to. This option is only used if supported by the
browser/platform, and the backup location is set to Local folder or Same location (in which
case it is used for projects saved to the local system). Click the Choose button to pick the
folder. A folder must be picked for backups to a local folder to work. Construct may have to
prompt you the first time it writes to this folder in a session for permission to write to it.
Backup interval (minutes)

The duration in minutes after which Construct will automatically make a backup, if enabled.
Clear recent projects

Click to clear the entries listed in Recent projects in the Start Page and main menu.
Download local browser saves

This option is only shown when local browser saves are enabled (which is only in browsers
which do not support saving directly to files). Click to download a zip file with all projects
saved to the local browser. This is useful for archiving, diagnostics, and recovery if local
storage is somehow corrupted.

Default properties
Default project author
Default project email
Default project website

Set the default project properties used when creating new projects. These settings will be
pre-filled in to the author, email and website project properties.
Default animation speed

Set the default animation speed for new animations in the Animations Editor. By default this
is 5 to play animations at 5 frames per second. It can be useful to change this to 0 if you
don't want animations to play by default, allowing manual control of the animation frame.

Updates
Page 191 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Notify me about updates for

Opt-in to see notifications about new beta releases. Beta releases are more frequent and
include new features sooner, but may have more bugs. By default you will only be notified
about new stable releases which are generally more reliable. Note you can try beta releases
at any time by visiting the Releases page - this setting only controls which automatic update
notifications you see.
Note if you save a project in a newer release of Construct 3, such as a beta release
ahead of a stable release, that project cannot be opened in the older release. You may
wish to back up your projects before using a beta release.

Check for updates for installed addons

Enable automatically checking if any updates are available for installed addons via the
Addons section of the website. If enabled updates are checked for when the editor starts up,
and will show a notification if updates are found; updates can then be installed via the Addon
Manager.

Preview
Preview with

Choose one of the following ways for previewing projects:
Popup window: open a popup window to display the project in. The popup uses a
reduced browser interface, such as hiding tabs, to conserve space. This allows you to
view the project in a separate window. However sometimes popup blockers can prevent
the window from appearing.
Browser tab: open a full new browser tab to display the project in. The new tab uses the
full browser interface. Normally when previewing the browser will add a new tab in the
same browser window, and switch from Construct 3 to the project being previewed.
Dialog: open a dialog inside the Construct 3 window to display the project in. This does
not involve opening a new browser window at all, so is never blocked by popup blockers.
However the dialog cannot be moved outside of the Construct 3 window.
Construct 3 must be reloaded after changing this.

Start page
Show the Start Page on startup

Page 192 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Whether to show the Start Page when Construct starts up.
Hide the Start Page when opening a project

If enabled, then the Start Page will automatically be closed when you open a project or
example.
Occasionally show message banners from the Construct team on the Start Page

When there is a major new update or an active promotion, Construct may show an official
message banner on the Start Page. Note this message comes directly from the Construct
team - it is not a third-party advert. Uncheck this option if you would prefer not to see these
messages.

Event sheets
Hide 'Add action' links

Hide the row beneath actions in the Event Sheet View that contains the Add action link. This
can save vertical space in the Event Sheet View making it easier to read events, but makes it
slightly less convenient to edit events. Actions can still be added even when the Add action
links are hidden using context menus or keyboard shortcuts. Also events with no actions still
show an Add action link, since it does not take up any extra space.
Translate expressions

This only applies if you have changed Construct's language to something other than English.
For compatibility reasons, expressions in the event sheet must still be written in English,
even when the interface is showing a different language. By default Construct translates
expressions so you can read and autocomplete them in the same language; however they
must still be written in English. Uncheck this setting to keep displaying expressions in English
even when the interface is in a different language, which means they appear the same way
they are written. This may be particularly useful for bilingual users who also know English.

Advanced
Use in-app clipboard

By default when selecting a 'Copy' command, Construct will try to write to the system
clipboard. However due to restrictions in when browsers allow this to happen, sometimes
the copy is blocked and Construct must prompt you to allow the operation. To avoid this, you
can enable the in-app clipboard, which does not write to the system clipboard. This avoids
these prompts ever appearing, but means you can only copy and paste within the same
Construct window.
Cache cloud metadata

Page 193 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If enabled, this saves information about files and folders in your cloud storage account
locally for the duration of the session. This makes it faster to use Cloud Save, since all file
listings are immediately available. However it will not update to reflect changes made
elsewhere unless you manually refresh the list. If this option is disabled it will always update
the file list from the cloud storage service and therefore always be up-to-date, but if your
connection is slow (or the cloud storage service is slow) this can make it slow to use Cloud
Save.
Limit editor/preview to WebGL 1

Enable this setting to force the editor and preview to use WebGL 1 even when the device
supports WebGL 2. Exported projects will still continue to use WebGL 2 where supported
when this setting is enabled. It is intended for developers testing both WebGL 1 and WebGL
2 shader variants in effect addons and should not need to be used for anything else.
Show in-progress languages

Show languages in the Language setting that are not yet complete. This option is intended
for translators to help them review their work.
Translations are fully reviewed before release, but in-progress translations have not had
any kind of review yet. There is no guarantee that the content of in-progress languages is
suitable or appropriate.

Enable experimental features

Opt-in to testing pre-release features that may not be ready for full release yet. See the blog
for news about such features and how to use them. Note there may not always be
experimental features to be enabled, but when any are available enabling this setting will
make them available in the editor.
Enable WebGPU in editor

Whether to enable the WebGPU renderer in the Construct editor (which is used to draw
Layout Views). If disabled or WebGPU is not supported, a WebGL renderer will be used
instead. The renderer in use can be viewed in the Platform Information dialog (via the About
dialog). The renderer in use also affects which shader variants will be used for effects; in
some cases using third-party effects may require using a specific renderer otherwise they
will not be able to render in the editor. The Auto setting means Construct will use the default,
which is currently the WebGL renderer.
GPU preference

Some systems have multiple GPUs. For example many laptops have a weak, low-power
integrated GPU for use on battery, and a more powerful discrete GPU for gaming. This
Page 194 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

setting allows you to specify which GPU to prefer. Construct 3 must be reloaded after
changing this. You can check which GPU is in use by opening the About dialog, clicking
Platform information, and inspecting the Renderer under WebGL information. Note not all
browsers support this setting, in which case it will have no effect.

Page 195 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

STORAGE CLEANUP DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/storagecleanup

The Storage Cleanup dialog is a tool that helps you to free up storage space on the local device.
If you run out of available storage space, it can cause errors to appear and may stop some
features of Construct working correctly. This tool provides a way to help solve the problem if that
happens. In some cases Construct will recommend you use this dialog to free up more space if
it detects a storage problem that may have been caused by lack of free space.

The Storage Cleanup dialog can be opened by choosing Menu►View►Storage cleanup. In some
cases it may take a while to fully scan storage before listing deletion options.
The estimated storage usage and quota are estimates provided by the browser. They may
not be exactly accurate, and also may not match up with the amount of space Construct
thinks it can save by deleting items. Further it may not immediately update after clearing
storage. It is best to only treat it as a guide to whether storage is mostly full or whether there
is a reasonable amount of storage space available.
In general, providing you are online, everything can be safely cleared. Exported projects that are
cleared can always be re-exported from the original project, and downloaded NW.js versions,
Linux CEF versions, example projects, and saved versions of Construct can all be re-downloaded
while online. However if you are offline, you may wish to be more careful about the items that
you clear, since they may then become unavailable until you next go online. In particular deleting
all saved versions of Construct will delete the copy used to work offline, and therefore stop you
Page 196 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

being able to work offline until you next go online, where Construct will save itself for use offline
again. For this reason that option is unchecked by default since you should check you are online
before using it. After using it, it's a good idea to reload Construct, which will make it save itself
for use offline again.
The items listed in the dialog include explanations of what they are and the consequences of
deleting them. There is also additional advice at the bottom of the dialog with additional things
you can do to free up space which you will have to do separately since Construct cannot do
them for you. Some browsers set a storage quota based on a proportion of the available disk
space, so in general anything else that frees up storage space on the device should increase the
quota available to Construct.

Page 197 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

WINDOWS WRAPPER OPTIONS
DIALOG
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/dialogs/windowswrapper-options

The Windows wrapper options dialog allows you to customise a Windows wrapper (WebView2)
export Paid plans only.

The Windows wrapper options dialog.

The following options are available.
Platforms

Select which platforms are exported. You can choose between Windows 32-bit (for Intelcompatible systems, technically referred to as x86), Windows 64-bit (for Intel-compatible
systems, technically referred to as x64), and Windows ARM64 (for Windows on 64-bit ARMbased chips).
The 32-bit (x86) app can actually run on all the other systems: 32-bit x86 apps can still
run on Windows 64-bit, and Windows ARM64 has an emulator for 32-bit x86 apps.
However using the right app for the system will be faster and more reliable.

Enable DevTools

Whether the app should allow opening the Microsoft Edge DevTools by pressing F12 or using
the Inspect context menu option. This is useful for development purposes.
Resizable window

Page 198 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Whether the application window can be resized by the user. If disabled the window can still
be made fullscreen using events.
Bundle assets

By default all your exported project files end up in a subfolder named www inside the app. It
is possible inquisitive users could find some of your project's assets in here, including
artwork, music and sound effects. If you enable Bundle assets, all these files are combined in
to a single file named assets.dat. This file is not encrypted, but it does prevent casual
browsing of the exported files. On modern systems, enabling this option should not
significantly impact performance.
Ignore GPU blacklist

Some systems with poor quality graphics drivers can end up crashing or causing severe
display glitches when running games. Browsers provide blacklists to recognise faulty drivers
or hardware and fall back to software rendering. This guarantees the game will work, but can
result in poor performance on such systems. Disabling this option always uses GPU
rendering which can be much faster, but can then run in to issues on systems with poor
quality drivers.
Export for Remote Preview

If enabled this exports the project with all its resources and extensions, but the app itself will
show preview.construct.net. This allows it to be used to load a Remote Preview from
Construct, allowing faster testing with WebView2-specific features enabled.
Command line options

This option allows advanced users to customise the Chromium command-line arguments
used by WebView2.

Page 199 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/keyboard-shortcuts

The following keyboard shortcuts are available in Construct 3.
Note that on macOS the Command key ⌘ is used instead of Control for most keyboard
shortcuts. However since it is the only exception, for brevity the keyboard shortcuts below refer
to Ctrl.

General
Ctrl + X Cut
Ctrl + C Copy
Ctrl + V Paste
Ctrl + Drag with mouse left button Duplicate
Ctrl + Z Undo
Ctrl + Y Redo
Ctrl + A Select all
Ctrl + D Unselect all
Ctrl + F Find by text
Ctrl + Shift + F Focus the Project Bar search field
Alt + N New project
Ctrl + O Open project from local file
Ctrl + S Save project
Alt + W Close current editor tab
F4 Preview project from first layout
F5 Preview current layout
Shift + F4 Debug from first layout
Shift + F5 Debug current layout
Alt + Preview button to start an additional preview
Page 200 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Alt + 4 Start additional preview from first layout
Alt + 5 Start additional preview from current layout
F6 Export project
F9 Reload all script files from disk (only available when saved as project folder)
Delete Delete selected item(s)
F2 Rename selected item
Enter Edit selected item
Ctrl + click Add or remove clicked item from selection
Shift + click Select everything in between the last selected item and the clicked item
Escape Cancel drag or placement or event search
Ctrl + Shift + 🡑 Move to top
Ctrl + Shift + 🡓 Move to bottom
Alt + Shift + 🡐 / B Back
Alt + Shift + 🡒 / N Next
Ctrl + Shift + 🡐 Go to next tab to right
Ctrl + Shift + 🡒 Go to next tab to left
Shift + S Go to associated view (switches between Layout View and Event Sheet View)

Layout view
See also: Layout View
Ctrl + Mouse Wheel Up or Ctrl + + Zoom in
Ctrl + Mouse Wheel Down or Ctrl + - Zoom out
Hold Shift to increase the zoom rate.
Ctrl + 0 Return to 100% zoom
Middle mouse button drag or Hold space and move mouse Pan the view
Ctrl + E or Shift + S Go to associated event sheet
Arrow keys Nudge selected objects 1 pixel. Hold Shift to nudge 10 pixels.

Page 201 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

When grid snapping is enabled, nudging moves a whole grid cell at a time. Hold Alt to
disable this and nudge 1 pixel again.
Hold Shift while resizing objects for proportional resize
Hold Shift while rotating objects to lock to 5 degree increments
Hold Shift while dragging objects for axis-lock (move along diagonals only)
Hold Tab and click a selected object to select the next object underneath in the Z order
Hold Alt while moving selection to disable resize handles, rotation and grid snapping while held.
Hold Alt when selecting an instance to bypass any container selection.
Hold Control while resizing selection to resize relative to the object origin
Hold Tab while right clicking to show the context menu on the current selection rather than the
top instance
Ctrl + Shift + 🡑 Send to front of layer
Ctrl + Shift + 🡓 Send to back of layer
C Center horizontally in viewport
T Align to top of viewport
Enter Wrap selection (to rotate or stretch the selection as a whole)
W Select container and wrap. For example, select one object in a container of eight objects, press
W, then all eight objects are selected and wrapped.
To paste objects in-place (so they paste at their original positions, instead of relative to the
mouse), hold Shift while placing a paste. The full process is: Ctrl + C to copy an object; press
Ctrl + V to turn the mouse to a crosshair, hold Shift and click, all objects paste at their original
positions (instead of by the mouse) and the mouse returns to a normal cursor.
Ctrl + R Start all Live Previews Paid plans only
Ctrl + Shift + R Stop all Live Previews Paid plans only
When editing tilemaps using the Tilemap Bar:
1 - 6 Switch current tool
X Flip horizontal
Y Flip vertical

Page 202 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Z Rotate 90 degrees clockwise
A Rotate 90 degrees anti-clockwise
R Reset transformations
Shift + right click Select a patch of tiles from the tilemap
Ctrl or Alt Gr + [ Use the replace whole hierarchy option on the current selection of
templates and/or replicas
Ctrl or Alt Gr + ] Use the modify existing hierarchy option on the current selection of
templates and/or replicas
When editing timelines using the Timeline Bar:
Hold Ctrl when dragging a cubic bezier anchor point to also modify the adjacent anchor point if
there is any.

Event Sheet View