# Manual Construct 3  Parte 2 (líneas 12012400)

## Resumen
- animated format, such as .gif or .apng, the asset is used to fill up an animation, if the chosen object type supports it. (línea 8)
- As single object type: will create a single object type with an animation with as many frames as assets where selected. Any (línea 9)
- animated formats are interpreted as an individual animation in the new object type. (línea 10)
- Images (línea 12)
- As icons: all assets are imported into the Icons & screenshots folder. Animated formats are not imported as icons. (línea 14)
- SVG (línea 15)
- As sound: all the assets are imported into the Sounds project folder. (línea 18)
- Audio (línea 20)
- As music: all the assets are imported into the Music project folder. (línea 22)
- Video All assets are imported into the Videos project folder. (línea 24)
- Fonts All assets are imported into the Fonts project folder. (línea 25)
- Scripts All assets are imported into the Scripts project folder. (línea 26)
- Misc. only: only assets which are not any of the other types are imported into the Files project folder. (línea 27)
- Files (línea 28)
- All: all the assets in the zip file are imported into the Files project folder. (línea 30)
- Other Context Menu Options (línea 32)
- Other options in the various context menus are the following: (línea 33)
- Option (línea 34)
- Download (línea 35)
- Preview (línea 36)

## Contenido

As multiple object types: will create a new object type for each asset, each one using an asset as it's image. If the asset is an
animated format, such as .gif or .apng, the asset is used to fill up an animation, if the chosen object type supports it.
As single object type: will create a single object type with an animation with as many frames as assets where selected. Any
animated formats are interpreted as an individual animation in the new object type.

Images

As icons: all assets are imported into the Icons & screenshots folder. Animated formats are not imported as icons.
SVG

Are imported as a project file in the project's Files folder and a new SVG Picture using the corresponding project file.
As sound: all the assets are imported into the Sounds project folder.

Audio

As music: all the assets are imported into the Music project folder.

Video All assets are imported into the Videos project folder.
Fonts All assets are imported into the Fonts project folder.
Scripts All assets are imported into the Scripts project folder.
Misc. only: only assets which are not any of the other types are imported into the Files project folder.
Files

All: all the assets in the zip file are imported into the Files project folder.

Other Context Menu Options
Other options in the various context menus are the following:
Option
Download
Preview
License terms
Visit asset
website

Description
Download the selected asset to the local file system. In case of selecting multiple assets, everything is compressed into
a zip file. Using this option on a folder will download all the contents of the folder, compressing it into a zip file.
Bring up a dialog to preview the contents of the selected asset
Open a new page with the license associated with the asset.
Open a new page with the asset's website.

This option appears when bringing up a context menu of a zip asset. Allows to explore the contents of the zip as if it was
a folder. After using this option double clicking on the zip will open it as a folder instead of importing the contents.
Find folder in tree Scroll the tree pane to show the folder a given asset belongs to.
Expand/Collapse
Expand or collapse all the selected folders in the tree pane.
All
Explore

Browsing assets in the local file system
As mentioned earlier you can browse folders in the local file system, to do so first choose the
Local assets option from the dropdown in the main toolbar and then click on the + button to
choose a folder.
Different folders can be added and will be stored for future use.
This feature is only available as long as the browser supports it, if it's not supported it won't
appear in the drop down.

Page 37 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE PROJECT BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/project-bar

The Project Bar shows an overview of everything in your project. See Project Structure for a
summary of the different elements that make up a project, or the manual section on Project
Primitives for more detail.

The Project Bar

If something in the project has changed, it is displayed in italics. When you save the project,
everything reverts to normal text, indicating nothing has changed since the last save.
To view the project properties, select the project item. This is the item at the top of the Project
Bar with the name of the project. When you select it, the Properties Bar displays properties
affecting the whole project. You can also right-click the project item to show a list of options,
particularly the Tools submenu.

Organising projects
The Project Bar can be used to arrange your project in to subfolders Paid plans only. Subfolders
can be added by right-clicking a folder and selecting Add subfolder. Then, you can drag and
drop folders and items to organise them in to folders.
You can hold Control or Shift to select multiple items and drag them in to a folder at the same
time. However you can only organise items in to folders of the same type, e.g. you can't drag an
event sheet in to a layout folder.

Managing items in the project

Page 38 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Right-click any item in the Project Bar to show a list of options. Most items can be renamed and
deleted. Right-clicking a folder also has the option to add a new item to that folder, such as a
new layout or event sheet. Objects are more commonly added in the Layout View, but you can
still add them from the Project Bar too.

Deleting objects
Deleting from the Layout View will not remove an object from the project completely. The only
way to fully remove an entire object type from the project is to delete it from the Project Bar.

Searching the Project Bar
To search the Project Bar, simply type in the search field at the top of the bar. The contents of
the Project Bar will filter down to matching items as you type, helping you quickly find things in
your project.
Once you're done simply press Escape to clear the search and revert to the normal view of the
Project Bar.

Importing audio
Right-click either the Sound or Music folders and select Import sounds or Import music to open
the Import Audio dialog. This allows you to pick audio files from your computer and import them
to the project. Construct will convert them to the necessary format to support all browsers. To
play back audio in your game, make sure you add the Audio object to the project. For more
information see Sounds & Music.

Importing files
You can import additional external files to the project, including web fonts. These can be
categorised in to Videos, Fonts, Icons or the general-purpose Files folder. For more information,
see Project Files and Icons & splash.

Previewing files
From the Project Bar, you can preview several kinds of files added to the project. Audio and video
files can be played back. Web fonts can be previewed with a dialog showing some text using the
font. SVG files can also be previewed. Other kinds of file can be viewed and edited using the file
editors Paid plans only.

Page 39 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE PROPERTIES BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/properties-bar

The Properties Bar is an essential of the interface. It displays a list of all the settings you can
change on whatever is selected. The picture below shows the Properties Bar displaying a
project's properties.

The Properties Bar

There are too many properties in Construct to list here. Instead, properties for different parts of
the project are documented in the relevant manual section. For example, layout properties are
described in the manual entry Layouts.
Properties are organised in to categories which can be expanded and collapsed. There are many
kinds of properties, including number fields, text fields, dropdown lists and clickable links. The
property name appears in the left column, and the editable value appears in the right column.
Whenever something in the project is clicked or selected, its properties display in the Properties
Bar. For example, selecting objects in the Layout View or clicking items in the Project Bar shows
the relevant properties in the Properties Bar.

Things with properties
Some of the most important parts of the project with properties that you'll regularly modify are:
Projects
Layouts
Layers

Page 40 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Object instances
Many plugins, behaviors and effects have their own properties as well. See the Reference
section of the manual for information on those.
There is also a Help link displayed at the end of every property list. Click that to open the relevant
manual section for those properties.

Property descriptions
All properties also have a description which provide additional information about what the
property is used for. This is displayed in a panel at the bottom of the Properties Bar. It is worth
keeping an eye on this since it can contain useful hints and tips. An example is shown below.

Typing calculations
In number values, you can type calculations like 1920 / 2 and press enter to set the value to
the result of the calculation (960). The syntax used is the same as expressions used in events.
You can also use some basic system expressions like sqrt(64) .

Dragging values
Number values can also be smoothly dragged with instant feedback in the Layout View. This is
useful to try out a range of values and easily see which is best. To do this, click and drag
vertically inside the number value cell. You can also hold Control or Shift while dragging to
increase or decrease the rate of change. If you have trouble getting this to work, try first clicking
inside the cell (which should select the text in the cell), and then click on the selected text and
drag vertically.

Page 41 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE LAYERS BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/layers-bar

The Layers Bar is used to add, edit and remove layers in a layout. A layer is like a sheet of glass
objects are painted on to. This allows easy arrangement of which objects display in front of
other objects, for example showing foreground objects in front of the background sprites. It also
allows for interesting depth effects like Z elevation or parallax, and layers can be individually
scaled and rotated as well.
Layers can be dragged and dropped in the Layers Bar to change their order. Layers at the
bottom of the list are displayed at the back (e.g. background objects), and layers at the top of
the list are displayed at the front (e.g. HUD objects).
Selecting a layer displays its properties in the Properties Bar and also sets it as the active layer
which new objects are inserted in to.

The Layers Bar

The Layers list
Each layer in the list has the following:
A checkbox to toggle whether the layer is visible in the editor (this does not affect the game
when previewing or exporting)
A padlock icon. Clicking this toggles the layer's locked status. If a layer is locked, objects on
that layer cannot be selected in the editor. This is useful to prevent accidental selections on
rarely-used layers like backgrounds.
An optional globe icon to denote global layers.
An optional tag icon to denote HTML layers.

Page 42 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

A number to the right. This is a zero based index of the layer (the first layer is number 0, not
1). If you need to enter a layer number in the event system, this is the corresponding number.
You can also enter layer names in the event system, which is often more convenient since
unlike the numbers, the names don't change if you reorder layers.
You can right click a layer to see a menu of additional options, such as to add a new layer,
rename or delete layers, or shortcuts to show, hide, lock or unlock all layers (or all but the
selected one). Layers which are showing content from a global layer will show a context menu
option to go to the layout where the original global layer is in.

Sub-layers
Layers can also be added as sub-layers of another layer. They can be added as sub-layers or
moved to be sub-layers via drag-and-drop. Sub-layers appear indented in the Layers Bar to show
they come under another layer, and the layer they belong to can be expanded or collapsed to
show or hide all its sub-layers.
Sub-layers can be used solely to help organize long layer lists, acting like layer folders. However
applying an effect to a layer will also affect all its sub-layers. This allows for more efficiently
processing effects (instead of having to add the same effect repeatedly to several layers), as
well as more advanced effect composition across different groups of layers.

Object Z ordering
To modify the Z order (front-to-back order) of individual objects on a layer, use the Z Order Bar
Paid plans only.

Page 43 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE TILEMAP BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/tilemap-bar

The Tilemap Bar allows editing tilemaps in the Tilemap object from the Layout View. It provides
a toolbar with various tools and options, and a view of the current tileset image.

The Tilemap Bar

Basic usage
To add a tilemap and start editing it, follow these steps:
1

Add a Tilemap object to the layout and make sure it is selected

2

Choose the Pencil or Rectangle tool from the Tilemap bar's toolbar

3

Select a tile in the tileset showing in the Tilemap bar

4

Click inside the Tilemap object to start drawing the selected tile

You can hold shift and right-click a tile in the Layout View to pick that tile to draw with. You can
also hold shift and drag the right mouse button over a range of tiles to select that range of tiles
as a patch you can stamp out.
To stop editing the tilemap's tiles and return to normal layout editing, click the mouse cursor on
the Tilemap bar's toolbar to restore normal layout view selection. This also allows you to move
and resize the entire tilemap object.
If you have multiple tilemap objects, only the selected tilemap is edited. It is often useful to layer
tilemap objects directly on top of each other, in which case the tilemap to edit can be most easily
selected using the Z Order Bar Paid plans only or hiding/locking layers with the Layers Bar.
If you are dealing with small tiles, you can also zoom the tileset image using the toolbar buttons.
You can also access some of these options via a menu when right-clicking inside the Tilemap
Bar.
There are a range of keyboard shortcuts that can be used when editing tilemaps. For more
information, see the manual entry on Keyboard shortcuts.

Page 44 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If the bar is not visible anywhere in the UI, it can be opened by doing either of these:
1

In the main menu button make sure the View►Bars►Tilemap Bar option is ticked

2

Right-click on a tilemap instance in the Layout View and choose the option Tilemap►Open
Tilemap bar...

Toolbar tools
The Tilemap Bar's toolbar has the following options:
Normal layout view selection: stop editing tiles and select the Tilemap object like any other
object.
Pencil tile tool: draw tiles with the mouse. You can also select an area of tiles by dragging
across several tiles in the displayed tileset, and then use this tool to stamp that region of tiles
in to the tilemap. You can also hold shift and right-click to drag an area over the Tilemap
object to select a region of tiles to copy, or use the selection tool to do the same.
Erase tile tool: erase tiles from the tilemap so they appear as transparent space. Larger
areas can be erased by selecting a larger area of tiles in the tileset. A shortcut for erasing
single tiles is to right-click while another tool is selected.
Rectangle tile tool: draw a rectangular area of tiles by clicking and dragging in the Tilemap
object. You can also select a 3x3 area of tiles in the displayed tileset, and the tool will
automatically nine-patch the tiles. This also works for drawing single rows or columns with
smaller selections such as 1x3 or 3x1, where the first and last tile are the first and last in the
selection, and the rest are the middle tile repeated.
Fill tool: much like using a fill tool in an image editor, this allows filling a continuous area
with a new kind of tile. If multiple tiles are selected in the tileset, they are repeated over the
fill area.
Select tool: click and drag to select a range of tiles to use in the Tilemap object. Then switch
to another tool to use that selection. For example switching to the Pencil tool allows you to
stamp out copies of the selected range. A shortcut for this is to hold shift and right click and
drag an area while the Pencil tool is selected. The individual tiles in the selection will be
highlighted in the Tilemap bar
Auto tile tool: this tool uses predefined brushes to automatically place the correct tile as you
draw. Just pick the brush from the dropdown menu next to the tool's button and start using
it. The brushes that are created by default are configured to work properly with the default
tileset image. To create or modify brushes for use with different tilesets use the Tilemap
Brush Editor.
Patch tool: this tool uses brushes to draw a predefined set of tiles. Just pick the brush from
the dropdown menu next to the tool's button and start using it. The brushes that are created
by default work correctly with the default tileset image. To create or modify brushes for use
with different tilesets use the Tilemap Brush Editor.
Mirror: when using the Pencil tool, tiles will be placed flipped horizontally. This can also apply
to an entire patch of tiles.
Page 45 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Flip: when using the Pencil tool, tiles will be placed flipped vertically. This can also apply to
an entire patch of tiles.
Rotate anti-clockwise: when using the Pencil tool, tiles will be rotated 90° anti-clockwise.
This can also apply to an entire patch of tiles. Click repeatedly to keep rotating tiles another
90°.
Rotate clockwise: when using the Pencil tool, tiles will be rotated 90° clockwise. This can
also apply to an entire patch of tiles. Click repeatedly to keep rotating tiles another 90°.
Reset transformation: restores tiles to no mirror, no flip and no rotation.
Zoom in, Zoom out, Reset zoom: adjust the zoom of the source tileset image displayed in
the Tilemap Bar. This is useful if you are dealing with particularly small tiles.
Save to TMX: export a zip with the current tileset image and the current tiles as a .tmx file
(as used by the Tiled editor). Note that Construct does not support all of Tiled's features, so
importing then exporting a TMX may lose some data, such as terrain definitions. Also since
in Construct a Tilemap object represents a single layer of tiles, the exported TMX file will also
only ever have one layer.
Load TMX: import a .tmx tilemap as used by Tiled. All the tiles in the object are replaced with
tile data from the TMX file. In Construct a Tilemap object represents a single layer of tiles, so
if the TMX file has multiple layers you will be asked which layer to import. To import all
layers, create a different tilemap object for each layer and import them separately. The tileset
image can also be replaced by choosing a new image file. Note you can also drag-and-drop
individual .tmx files, image files, and .zip files of both, in to the Tilemap Bar. This opens the
load TMX dialog with all relevant fields already filled in, so you only need to press OK.

Editing tile collision polygons
Each tile can have an individual collision polygon which is used when testing for collisions with
the tilemap object. To edit a tile's collision polygon, double-click the tile in the Tilemap Bar. The
Animations Editor will open to edit that tile. You can use the collision polygon tool to edit the
tile's collision polygon. While the tool is active, you can also right-click and choose Toggle
collision polygon to disable collisions for that tile entirely, such as if it is for decorative purposes
only.
You can also use the image editing features of the Animations Editor to alter the image of the
tile.
When hovering the mouse over a tile in the Tilemap Bar, its collision polygon is shown as an
outline, if it has one. This helps you to quickly review the collision polygon set for each tile.

Bulk editing
There are four context menu options to toggle the state of multiple collision polygons at the
same time, they are the following:

Page 46 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enable selected tile collisions: enable the collision polygon of all the tiles highlighted in the
Tilemap bar.
Disable selected tile collisions: disable the collision polygon of all the tiles highlighted in the
Tilemap bar.
Enable all tile collisions: enable all the collision polygons of the tilemap.
Disable all tile collisions: disable all the collision polygons of the tilemap.
Using the Select tool will highlight the individual tiles in the Tilemap Bar, so it is easy to
toggle the collision polygon state of a group of related tiles after making a selection in the
tilemap instance.

The Tilemap object
For more information on how to use tilemaps, see the manual entry on the Tilemap object.

Page 47 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE TILEMAP BRUSH EDITOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/tilemapbar/tilemap-brush-editor

The tilemap brush editor
This editor is used to create, edit and delete auto-tiling and patch brushes for use with the
Tilemap Bar.
There are three types of brushes supported, the 16 tile auto tiling brush, the 47 tile auto tiling
brush and the patch brush. Brushes are created by default with each instance of the Tilemap
plugin. The default brushes are setup to work correctly with the default tilemap image.
When the editor is opened from the auto tiling tool it will show the first auto tiling brush in the
corresponding object type. If it is opened from the patch brush tool, it will show the first patch
brush in the corresponding object type. This is just for convenience as both types of brushes can
be edited regardless from which part of the UI the editor was opened from.

Using the editor with auto tiling brushes
Here is a short summary on how to create, edit and use an auto tiling brush.
Step 1: Open the editor
Click the Edit brushes option from the dropdown menu of the auto tiling tool button in the
Tilemap Bar toolbar.

Step 2: Create (or edit) a brush
Click the Add option from the editor's toolbar.

Page 48 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If you don't need to create a new brush, one of the existing ones can be picked from the first
dropdown in the editor's toolbar.

Make sure the Type dropdown is either Auto 16 or Auto 47 if you want to create or edit an
auto tiling brush!

Step 3: Make changes to an auto tiling brush
In order to properly set up an auto tiling brush, you will need to choose which tiles of the tileset
will go in each position of the template. To do that, click on the tile you want to change in the
template (left pane). If this is a new brush it's best to start with the top left tile. After clicking the
template tile, it will become highlighted. Then choose the tile from the tileset (right pane) that
will go in that position.
After doing that, the selected tile will be assigned to that position and the next tile in the
template will be highlighted. From here, all that needs to be done is to repeat the process until all
the tiles in the template have a value assigned to them.
After you are done you can use the "Toggle tiles" button in the toolbar to quickly review what
tiles have been assigned to each position of the template.
Toogle tiles button

Page 49 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Neutral Template Tiles

Assigned Template Tiles

Step 4: Using an auto tiling brush
Click the brush you want to use from the dropdown menu of the auto tiling tool button in the
Tilemap Bar toolbar.

Make sure the auto tiling tool is activated (by clicking the main part of the button) and start
drawing on the tilemap instance as you would with any other tilemap tool.

Using the editor with patch brushes
Creating and editing patch brushes is similar to auto tiling brushes, but since they perform
different tasks there are a few differences in the UI.
When the type of a brush is changed to "Patch" the top toolbar will include "Width" and "Height"
fields to set the size of the patch. The "Toggle tiles" button is not present when editing a patch
brush.
Asides from that, the process of selecting tiles for each position of the patch is the same as with
auto tiling brushes.

Interface
This dialog is separated into 5 different panes which are described below.

Page 50 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Panes
Template: located in the top left, this pane shows the template of the auto tiling brush being
edited. Its purpose is to select the tile of the template to be modified. Clicking on a template
tile will update the Current tile, Assigned tiles and Tile properties panes. The template
shown will change depending on the type of the current brush.
Tileset: located in the top right, this pane shows the tiles being used by the tilemap object
type. Its purpose is to select tiles to assign to the currently selected template tile. Just
selecting a tile from here will assign it to the current template tile and move to the next. If
you bring up the context menu of a tile (e.g. by right-clicking), it is possible to assign multiple
tiles to the same template tile. The use of this feature is discussed later.
Current tile: located in the bottom left, this pane shows the current template tile. It is only a
visual aid and serves no other purpose. This pane is not shown when editing a patch brush.
Assigned tiles: located in between the Current tile and Tile properties panes, this pane
shows all the tiles assigned to a template tile. Selecting a tile from the list will update the Tile
properties panes with the appropriate values. From this pane it is possible to remove an
assigned tile using a context menu option.
Tile properties: located in the bottom right, this pane shows the properties of the currently
selected tile in the Assigned tiles pane. Tile properties are the following:
Probability: in the case there is more than one tile assigned to a template position, the
auto tiling and patch tools will pick one of the available tiles at random. This value
dictates the probability of a tile being picked over the others.
Toolbar
From left to right these are all the tools in the main toolbar.

Page 51 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Brush: dropdown to select a brush to edit from the existing ones.
Options: the button next to the brush dropdown, has three basic options to manage brushes:
Add, Rename and Delete.
Type: change the type of the current brush. Currently two types are supported: Auto 16, Auto
47 and Patch. Changing this setting will update the contents of the Template pane.
Width: The width in tiles of the patch brush being edited. This button is only present when
editing patch brushes.
Height: The height in tiles of the patch brush being edited. This button is only present when
editing patch brushes.
Undo: reverts the last change.
Redo: applies the last change.
Tiles toggle: this is a visual aid to quickly see the first tile assigned to each template tile. If a
template tile has nothing assigned the toggle will make no changes. This button is only
present when editing auto tiling brushes.
Background toggle: change the background color of the Template and Tileset panes
between a light and dark color.
Zoom in: zoom in the Template and Tileset panes.
Zoom out: zoom out the Template and Tileset panes.
Zoom reset: reset the zoom of the Template and Tileset panes.
Context Menus
Template pane
Zoom in
Zoom out
Zoom reset
Help
Tileset pane
Add tile(s): Add additional tiles to be used in a template position in addition to the first
one. Multiple tiles might be added and will be visible in the Assigned tiles pane
Set brush with selection: Set all the tiles in the template at once with the current
selection. This option clears any previous existing tiles in the template.
Zoom in
Zoom out

Page 52 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Zoom reset
Help
Assigned tiles pane
Remove Tile: Remove the selected tile from the list of tiles available to the corresponding
template tile.
Help

Using multiple tiles on a template position
As mentioned earlier, it is possible to assign multiple tiles to a template position. The result of
this is that for the positions where multiple tiles have been chosen, the auto tiling and patch
tools will pick one of them at random when needed. This is useful to create more varied tilemap
layouts without having to manually edit tiles one at a time.
The following image shows how would you add an additional tile to the selected template
position.

Next you can see how the editor would look like after adding multiple tiles to the same template
position.

Page 53 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Using the Probability property of each tile, found in the Tile properties pane, it is possible to
adjust which of the tiles is more or less likely to be chosen by the auto tiling and patch tools.
Keep in mind that all tiles with the same probability value will have the same chance of being
chosen. For example, two tiles with 100% probability results in each tile having 50% chance of
being chosen when using the auto tiling or patch tools.

Page 54 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE Z ORDER BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/z-order-bar

Paid plans only The Z Order Bar allows precise control over which objects appear in front of
others. Although Construct is a 2D engine, the term Z order is used to refer to the display order
of each individual object.

The Z Order Bar

To open the Z Order Bar, either right click in the Layout View and select Z Order►Open Z Order
bar..., or tick the check at Menu►View►Bars►Z Order.

The Z Order list
Instances are listed in the Z Order bar in front-to-back order, i.e. instances at the top of the list
appear at the front, and instances at the bottom of the list appear at the back. Instances are
grouped by the layer they belong to.
If no objects are selected, the Z Order Bar displays all instances in the layout. If some instances
are selected in the Layout View, the list is filtered down to only those instances and any other
instances overlapping them. This makes it convenient to see the relative Z order of a small area
without having to take in to account the rest of the layout.

Identifying instances
With lots of the same instances in the list, it can sometimes be difficult to tell precisely where a
particular instance occurs in the list. To help identify each instance, its UID (unique identifier)
appears after its name, e.g. Player 41 (meaning a Player instance with UID 41).
Instances in the list which were selected in the Layout View are also selected in the Z Order bar.
Selecting instances from the Z Order Bar itself will also select objects in the Layout View and
show their properties, but will not affect the filtering of the list.

Page 55 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Sprite objects which have a different initial image set by changing the Initial frame or Initial
animation properties also display an icon for that initial image in the Z Order list.
Instances can be double-clicked to make them flash briefly in the Layout View. Alternatively an
instance can be right-clicked and then Flash this instance selected. This helps visually identify
the instance in the layout.
The context menu also has the option Scroll selection into view, which will make the Layout View
change it's scrolling to show all the selected instances.

Editing the Z Order
To move an object in the Z Order - adjusting which other objects it appears in front or behind drag and drop it in the list. You can also move objects to other layers this way. You can also
select multiple objects by holding Control or Shift and drag them all as a block to another layer
or location in the Z Order. When doing this, the relative order of the selection is also preserved.
If you want to add, remove or reorder layers themselves, use the Layers Bar instead.

View options
You can right-click the Z Order Bar and select Show active layer only. This further filters down the
list to only display objects on the current active layer (the selected layer in the Layers Bar), which
can be useful when working with a single layer.

Page 56 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE TIMELINE BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/timeline-bar

The Timeline Bar shows the currently active timeline. Through this control you can add and
remove instances and other types of tracks to a timeline, and edit its properties.

Using the Timeline Bar
Here's a summary of how to use the Timeline Bar. A project can have multiple timelines, each
timeline can have multiple instances, and each instance can have multiple property tracks.
Tracks then use keyframes to mark points in a timeline. Timelines can also have nested
timelines to produce more complex structures. Other types of tracks that do not directly
reference instances are supported, those are not covered in this quick start guide.

Step 1: create a timeline
With the Timeline Bar open, you can create a timeline with any of the following methods:
Right-click Timelines folder in the Project Bar and select Add timeline
Right-click in the Layout View and select Timeline►Add timeline

Page 57 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Project Bar context menu

Layout View context menu

Step 2: add an instance
Once you have a timeline, add an instance to it with any of these methods:
Use the add + button in the toolbar to bring up a dialog from which to choose instances to
add
Drag & drop instances from the Layout View into the bar
Right click selected instances in the Layout View and select Timeline►Add to timeline
Use the Track►Add instances option in the + split button
Add instances split button

Layout View context menu

Step 3: add keyframes
Adding an instance adds property tracks for the position (X and Y co-ordinates). The next step is
to add some keyframes, which you can do by following these steps:
1

Turn on Edit Mode by pressing the pencil button in the toolbar

Page 58 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

2

Move the current time marker to the position in the timeline where you want to create keyframes.
This can be done by either clicking on the time ruler or by dragging the red line marker.

3

Make changes to the instances you want to animate

4

Use the Set keyframes toolbar button, the S keyboard shortcut or right click in the Layout View
and select Timeline►Set keyframes

Edit mode button

Set keyframes button

Current T

Following those steps you should be able to setup the most basic timeline.

Previewing a timeline
The timeline can be previewed in the editor by pressing the Play button in the toolbar or by
scrubbing the current time marker (press and hold Ctrl or Cmd while scrubbing to move the
marker without previewing the timeline).
Playback Controls

Controlling timelines in events
You can control the timeline in your events using the Timeline Controller plugin.

Page 59 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Timeline Controller Plugin

Timeline Events

Edit mode
When edit mode is turned on with the edit toolbar button, the selection boxes in the Layout View
change color and the properties which can be animated with the timeline are highlighted in the
Properties Bar. The highlighting only happens for instances which are part of the current
timeline. Properties which are not highlighted in edit mode cannot be animated with a timeline.
After finishing editing a timeline remember to turn the mode off as changes made in this mode
are only relevant to the active timeline, rather than the whole project.
Highlighted Properties

Highlighted Selection

Page 60 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Updating keyframes
To update keyframes, place the current time marker on top of the keyframes you want to update,
make the necessary changes, and set the keyframe again, either by the toolbar button, keyboard
shortcut or by the Layout View menu option.
Right-click master keyframes to update all the corresponding property keyframes with the
current instance values.
Right-click property keyframes to individually update them with the current instance values.
Additionally, the X and Y properties of any instance can also be updated directly from the Layout
View by dragging the handles for the keyframe.

Drag & drop
There are various places in which it is possible to use a drag and drop workflow when using the
Timeline Bar.
To add new instances directly to the timeline from the current active layout. Drag the
instances from the Layout View and drop them on a Timeline.
To sort the different elements of the timeline that are represented by a row, such as a track.
To add a nested timeline in the current timeline by dragging it from the Project bar.
To update the starting offset of a nested timeline.
To update the position of master keyframes and property keyframes. Notes on dragging
keyframes:
Dragging a master keyframe updates it's position and the position of all related property
keyframes.
Dragging a property keyframe by itself creates a new one at the new position, along with
a corresponding master keyframe. Since property keyframes do not exist by themselves
there is no notion of just moving them by themselves. The only way to move a property
keyframe is to move the corresponding master.
Holding Shift while dragging a master keyframe will duplicate them and all related
property keyframes in the new position.

Auto keyframing
Page 61 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

By toggling auto keyframes, keyframes will be added to the timeline at the position of the current
time marker, as soon as changes are made in either the Properties bar or the Layout view.

Note on animating Sprite plugin instances
It is possible to animate the current frame of a Sprite plugin instance by animating it's initial
frame property.
When animating in this way make sure that the Sprite's normal animation is stopped as it would
interfere with the changes made by a timeline. Likewise if you are just using a Sprite's regular
animations, playing a timeline that changes the initial frame will cause un-expected results.
The two methods of animation can not coexist, you have to choose one over the other.
It is also possible to change the current animation a Sprite plugin instance will show at runtime
by animating the initial animation property.

More information
For more details on a timeline's capabilities, properties and related objects see the Project
Primitives section on timelines.
See the Timeline Controller plugin manual entry for more information on the actions, conditions
and expressions available for controlling timelines.
The Timeline Bar has various keyboard shortcuts which are listed in the manual entry Keyboard
shortcuts.

Page 62 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

INTERFACE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/timelinebar/interface

Toolbar

The buttons are described from left to right.
Add instances: Brings up a dialog to add instances which are not already part of the current
timeline.
Timeline►add timelines option inside the Add instances split button. Brings up a dialog
to add a nested timeline.
Timeline►add subfolder option inside the Add instances split button. Will add a timeline
folder to the root of the current timeline.
Track►add instances option inside the Add instances split button. Does the same as the
main button.
Track►add value option inside the Add instances split button. Adds a value track to the
root of the timeline.
Track►add audio option inside the Add instances split button. Adds an audio track to
the root of the timeline.
Track►add subfolder option inside the Add instances split button. Will add a track folder
to the root of the current timeline.
Edit mode: Turns on timeline editing mode.
Set keyframes: Set keyframes at the current time marker. Keyframes will be set in all tracks
which have an instance with any meaningful change. Only works while in editing mode.
Auto keyframes: Enable to set keyframes automatically in the current time marker as
changes are made. Keyframes are only set in the corresponding tracks for the changes
made. Only works while in editing mode.
Cut: Cut the current selection of keyframes.
Copy: Copy the current selection of keyframes.
Paste: Paste the current selection of keyframes relative to the current time marker. If no
tracks are selected each keyframe is pasted in it's respective track. If there is a selection of
tracks, an attempt is made to copy as many keyframes as possible into the correct tracks. If
a keyframe does not fit in any track, it is ignored.
Move to first keyframe: Moves the current time marker to the first master keyframe
Page 63 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Move to previous keyframe: Moves the current time marker to the nearest master keyframe
moving backwards
Preview: Start a preview of the current timeline.
Stop: Stop the preview of the current timeline.
Move to next keyframe: Moves the current time marker to the nearest master keyframe
moving forwards.
Move to last keyframe: Moves the current time marker to the last master keyframe
Previous timeline: Go back to the previously focused timeline in a nested structure. Hidden if
there are no nested timelines.
Next timeline: Go to the next timeline in a nested structure. Hidden if there are no nested
timelines.

Toggles
These are the four options at the left most side of the bar. These affect not only the timeline
element in the same row, but also any elements under the same hierarchy. If a row does not
have a checkbox, the corresponding element does not support the property.
Visibility: The checkboxes under the eye icon. These will toggle the visibility of the
corresponding timeline track instance. The setting only takes effect while edit mode is turned
on.
Lock: The checkboxes under the padlock icon. These will toggle the lock state of a timeline
element. Locked elements cannot be edited. Locked elements can't be edited and have a
grey highlight when selected in the layout while timeline editing mode is turned on.
Enable: The checkboxes under the checkmark icon. These will toggle the enable state of a
timeline element. This setting affects the timeline at runtime. Disabled timeline elements are
not taken into consideration when the timeline is interpolating values.
Show UI Elements: The checkboxes under the joined dots icon. Using these toggles you can
show and hide the layout UI elements associated with the instance. This includes paths lines,
keyframe handles and cubic bezier handles. This can be useful when working with timelines
which have many different elements.

The icons themselves can be clicked to modify the whole column.

Time markers
Page 64 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

These are the three vertical lines in the right most section of the bar.
Current time: The red line. Change its position to the place in the timeline you wish to add
new keyframes. The marker can be dragged directly or by clicking on the time ruler and
dragging. Dragging the marker will produce a preview of the timeline, provided that edit mode
is turned on. Holding Ctrl/Cmd while dragging the marker to prevent the timeline from being
previewed. Can also be changed from the Properties Bar when it is showing timeline
properties.
Total time: The green line. Indicates the total time the timeline takes to play to the end. Can
be dragged directly like the current time marker and changed from the Properties Bar when it
is showing timeline properties. This marker represents the total time of the top most timeline
only, if there are nested timelines, those are not represented by this line.

Compound time: The blue line. Indicates the total time a timeline has from start to finish
including all of it's nested content. This marker can not be dragged and is just shown as
reference. It won't be visible if there is no nested content or if the total time of the main
timeline is enough to hold all of it's children.

Timeline elements
These are the parts that make up a timeline. When selected, these elements will show their
properties in the Properties Bar.
Track: Represented as a row with an icon of the corresponding instance. Tracks can be
moved to and from track folders or the root of the timeline by dragging and dropping.
Master keyframe: Represented by black dots in the same row as the track they are
contained by. A master keyframe's main role is to serve as a control to modify corresponding
property keyframes in bulk.
Property track: Represented as a row with an icon of the corresponding property being
affected by the track. They can be moved to and from property track folders or the root of

Page 65 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

the parent track by dragging and dropping. They can not be moved outside of their parent
track.
Property keyframe: Represented by light blue square in the same row as the property track
they are contained by.
Track folder: Represented as a row with an icon of a folder. These are used to organise
elements in a timeline, should it be needed. A track folder can have nested tracks as well as
other track folders. They can be moved to and from track folders or the root of the timeline
by dragging and dropping.
Property track folder: Represented as a row with an icon of a folder. These are used to
organise elements in a track, should it be needed. A property track folder can have nested
property tracks as well as other property track folders, they can be moved to and from
property track folders or the root of the corresponding track by dragging and dropping.
Property track folders can not be moved outside their corresponding track.
Nested timeline: Represented as a row with the icon of a timeline, these act like a folder for
all the content inside and can be expanded and collapsed as such. Nested timelines can be
moved to and from timeline folders or the root of the parent timeline by dragging and
dropping. There are several details specific to nested timelines which are discussed later.
Timeline folder: Represented as a row with an icon of a folder. These are used to organize
nested timelines in a parent timeline. Timeline folders can only exist as children of the main
timeline or nested inside other timeline folders.
Timeline offset handle: Represented by a rectangle in the same row as the corresponding
nested timeline. It's width represents the total playback time of the corresponding timeline
and is positioned to be able to see, at a glance, when will the nested timeline will start and
finish in relation to the parent. It can be dragged to adjust the starting time of the nested
timeline in relation to the parent timeline.
Value Track: Represented as a row with a name. Value tracks can be moved to and from
track folders or the root of the timeline by dragging and dropping. They can only have one
property track and are not associated with any instance. Must be used in tandem with the
Timeline Controller plugin in order to query their value at runtime.
Audio Track: Represented as a row with a name. Audio tracks can be moved to and from
track folders or the root of the timeline by dragging and dropping. They can only have two
property tracks, one representing the audio file and another optional one to change the
volume as the timeline progresses. They are not associated with any instance.

Page 66 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CONTEXT MENUS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/timelinebar/context-menus

Elements context menus
All the timeline elements have context menu options that will come up by right-clicking on them.
Right-clicking on any part of the Timeline Bar which does not reference any particular element,
such as the section showing the name of the current timeline or the time ruler, will bring up a
menu with options that affect the timeline itself, rather than any of its elements.
Here is a list with all the available options for each element. The more obvious ones such as
Delete are not be described.
Timeline:
Timeline►Add timelines Bring up a dialog to add nested timelines to the root of the
current timeline.
Timeline►Add subfolder Add a timeline folder to the root of the current timeline.
Track►Add instances Bring up a dialog to add instances that don't already belong to the
current timeline.
Track►Add value Add a value track to the root of the current timeline.
Track►Add audio Add an audio track to the root of the current timeline.
Track►Add subfolder Add a track folder at the root of the current timeline.
Delete: Only shown for nested timelines. Deletes the timeline from the parent, but not
from the project.
Focus: Only shown for nested timelines. Gives focus to the timeline in the nested
structure.
Track:
Add properties: Bring up a dialog to manually add empty property tracks.
Add subfolder: Add a property track folder to the root of the track.
Swap instance: Brings up a dialog from which to choose instances that can be used to
replace the existing one.
Delete
Master keyframe:
Update: Update all the corresponding property keyframes.
Disable: Disable all the corresponding property keyframes.

Page 67 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enable: Enable all the corresponding property keyframes.
Delete
Add missing property keyframes: Add any missing property keyframes under the
specified master keyframe.
With interpolated values: The new property keyframes are given the values that the
timeline would generate at that point.
With current values: The new property keyframes are given the values currently held
by the instance.
Track folder:
Add instances from selection: Add all the instances currently selected in the Layout
View directly as children of the track folder.
Add instances from dialog: Bring up a dialog to add instances which are not already part
of the timeline, directly as children of the track folder.
Add subfolder
Rename
Delete
Property track:
Convert to scale: Convert width and height property tracks to corresponding scale X and
scale Y property tracks.
Convert all to scale: Convert all width and height property tracks in a timeline to the
corresponding scale X and scale Y property tracks.
Convert to size: Convert scale X and scale Y property tracks to corresponding width and
height property tracks.
Convert all to size: Convert all scale X and scale Y property tracks in a timeline to the
corresponding width and height property tracks.
Delete
Property keyframe:
Update: Update the value of the property keyframe with whatever value the
corresponding instance has at the moment.
Disable: Disable the property keyframe. A disabled property keyframe is not taken into
account when playing the timeline.
Enable: Enable the property keyframe.
Delete
Property track folder:
Add properties: Bring up a dialog to manually add empty property tracks for the
corresponding track. The new property tracks are directly added as children of the
property track folder.

Page 68 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Add subfolder
Rename
Delete
Timeline folder:
Add timelines: Bring up a dialog to add a nested timelines to the timeline folder.
Add subfolder
Rename
Delete
Common options:
Cut: Cut the current keyframe selection
Copy: Copy the current keyframe selection
Paste: Paste keyframes using the current time marker as reference. If no tracks are
selected at the moment of pasting, the keyframes will be added in their respective tracks.
If there are tracks selected at the moment of pasting, an attempt is made to paste the
keyframes into the tracks they would fit best. If there are keyframes in the selection
which can't be fit anywhere, they are ignored.
There is also the Set keyframes option that will show up in any menu provided there is at least a
track, track folder, property track or property track folder selected. This will add keyframes at the
position of the current time marker with the values the corresponding instances currently have. If
there are already keyframes at the current time marker position, they will be updated with the
most recent instance values.

Timeline bar context menu
Aside from the above options, there are some common options which show up in all menus and
are specific to the Timeline Bar itself.
Timeline:
Add timelines: Bring up a dialog to add nested timelines to the root of the current
timeline.
Add subfolder: Add a timeline folder to the root of the current timeline.
Track:
Add instances: Bring up a dialog to add instances that don't already belong to the current
timeline.
Add value: Add a value track to the root of the current timeline.
Add audio: Add an audio track to the root of the current timeline.
Add subfolder: Add a track folder at the root of the current timeline.
View:
Default: Show the default view of the bar
Page 69 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Animation modes: Show the animation mode used by each element of the timeline
Result modes: Show the result mode used by each element of the timeline
Eases: Show the ease function that are currently in use in between each pair of
keyframes
Path modes: Show which path mode is in use in between each pair of keyframes
Scale: Change the zoom level of the bar. This is an editor only setting and will not affect the
playback of a timeline.
The Properties Bar also shows most of the above options as properties. This allows you to see
at a glance which settings are used all across the timeline, and offers a convenient way to
change them as well.

Page 70 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

LAYOUT VIEW EDITING
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/timelinebar/layout-view-editing

When edit mode is on, the Layout View will show handles indicating the path an instance will
take as the timeline is played. The handles are only shown for X and Y properties, as those are
the only that can really show any form of useful visual feedback. The handles can be used to
update the path of the corresponding instance.
Additionally, when setting the Path mode property to Bezier Curve, more handles will appear to
edit the path between each pair of keyframes as curves.
There are three types of handles that can be distinguished by color and size
Large Blue: These represent the keyframe X and Y properties. Can be moved to update the
corresponding keyframes. If there is no property keyframe for either the X or Y properties, the
handle will only be able to move in one axis.
Small Green: These show up when the Path mode property between a pair of property
keyframes is set to Cubic Bezier and represent the first anchor point of a curve. If there is no
property keyframe for either the X or Y properties, the handle will only be able to move in one
axis.
Small Red: These show up when the Path mode property between a pair of property
keyframes is set to Cubic Bezier and represent the second anchor point of a curve. If there is
no property keyframe for either the X or Y properties the handle, will only be able to move in
one axis.
Aside from the handles, there are a few different lines that show up when the Layout View tool is
turned on:
Blue: These line represents the path instances will take as the timeline is played.
Grey: These lines are just visual connection between keyframes to help identify their order in
the timeline.
Red: These appear to show which pair of keyframes an instance is currently between, and
also to indicate that new keyframes can be added at that position.
Green: These appear when the current time marker is on top of a master keyframe in the
Timeline Bar. If the Set Keyframes option is used now, all the keyframes at that position will
be updated.

Show UI Elements Toggle
When creating a timeline with many different instances it can become confusing to edit their
paths if all the UI elements mentioned above are visible for all the instances at the same time.

Page 71 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

With this toggle you can hide the UI elements for the instances you are not interested in and only
show the ones you want.
Further more, if you make a master keyframe selection in the Timeline bar, the layout will only
show the corresponding UI elements for those specific master keyframes.

Page 72 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

NESTED TIMELINES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/timelinebar/nested-timelines

It is possible to nest timelines inside another parent timeline, this allows for coordination
between timelines without the need of events. When a timeline is shown as nested inside a
parent it works largely the same, some exclusive bits of UI are introduced as well as some
differences when compared to the main timeline.

Adding nested timelines
First you will need to create more than one timeline in the project, after doing that you can do
any of the following:
Drag a timeline from the Project Bar into the Timeline Bar to nest it in the currently active
timeline.
Use the sub option Timeline►Add timelines of the + split button in the toolbar to bring up a
dialog from which to choose timelines to add.
Right-click on empty space in the Timeline Bar to bring up a context menu for the current
timeline and use the option Timeline►Add timelines.
The image below shows how a nested timeline shows up in the Timeline Bar, after the main
timeline elements and separated by two horizontal lines (highlighted in red). You can also see
the nested timeline rows have a grey background to indicate they are not the main focus of the
bar. A few other UI elements unique to nested timelines appear as well, continue reading for
more details.

It is not possible to nest timelines that would produce recursive structures. Attempts to do
so will just be ignored.

Editing nested timelines
Focus

Page 73 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

While a timeline is shown as nested content most editing can be done on it as in the main
timeline. This includes, editing through the Properties Bar, moving keyframes, deleting keyframes
and changing the starting offset. Adding instances and adding keyframes is not directly available
to nested timelines though. In order to do those actions the nested timeline must have focus.
Giving focus to a nested timeline is easy, you can do one of the following:
Double-click the corresponding nested timeline row.
Right-click the corresponding nested timeline row and use the focus option.
In the image below you can see the nested timeline having focus. Now all of it's content have a
white background, while the rows that don't belong to it have a grey background. The timeline
with focus is the only that will accept changes relating to adding instances, keyframes or
updating keyframes.

Toolbar arrow buttons
The left pointing arrow is used to go to the last timeline which had focus, the right pointing arrow
is used to go to the next timeline which had focus. These buttons are only shown if there are
nested timelines in the current main timeline, otherwise they are hidden.

Starting Offset
The starting offset handle is the line that can be seen in the same row as the top most element
of a nested timeline. It is positioned to show where the nested timeline will start playing in
relation to the parent, and it is sized according to it's total time.
Similar to keyframes, dragging this handle allows you to change the starting offset of the nested
timeline.

Layout view feedback
Page 74 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

When a timeline with nested content is previewed in the layout, everything works as expected,
but the instances which don't have focus have slightly different feedback.
The instances and timeline UI elements which don't have focus, are shown with slightly
transparent colors.

Page 75 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE BOOKMARKS BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/bookmarks-bar

Paid plans only The Bookmarks Bar shows an overview of all the bookmarks in the project.
Bookmarks are a way of marking and quickly moving between events in the Event Sheet View.

The Bookmarks Bar

In the Event Sheet View, bookmarks can be toggled by pressing F2 or right-clicking and selecting
Toggle bookmark. Bookmarks can also be navigated between with Ctrl+F2 (for next bookmark)
and Shift+F2 (for previous bookmark). Alternatively you can double-click the bookmark listed in
the Bookmarks Bar. You can also right-click a bookmark listed in the Bookmarks bar to navigate
to it, remove it, or remove all bookmarks in the project. The Delete key can also be used to