# Manual Construct 3  Parte 1 (líneas 11200)

## Resumen
- WELCOME TO THE CONSTRUCT 3 (línea 9)
- MANUAL (línea 10)
- games directly in your browser. This manual provides a comprehensive reference of all of (línea 14)
- The manual starts by covering the interface of Construct and how to get basic tasks done. Later (línea 16)
- on it provides a detailed reference of all plugins and behaviors, including the System object. (línea 17)
- entry in case it includes information that will help you solve your problem. (línea 19)
- Construct also has links to the manual in various dialogs and menus to help you jump directly to (línea 20)
- the relevant manual page for that part of the software. Finally, dedicated users may want to read (línea 21)
- the manual to learn about all the possible features you can take advantage of. There may be (línea 22)
- Errata (línea 25)
- If you find a mistake or omission in the documentation, please file an issue on the Construct (línea 26)
- issue tracker with a link to the relevant manual entry and an explanation of what you think is (línea 27)
- Creative Commons license (línea 30)
- The Construct 3 manual is licensed under Creative Commons BY-SA 3.0. You are free to copy, republish, adapt, modify or otherwise use the material in the manual, providing you correctly (línea 31)
- attribute its source. (línea 32)
- GET CONSTRUCT (línea 38)
- editor.construct.net in your browser on any modern browser and Construct 3 will start. This (línea 42)
- makes it easy to switch between devices, use public computer terminals (even with strictly (línea 43)
- limited access), or painlessly deploy Construct 3 across a computer lab or office. (línea 44)
- Run Construct 3 as an app (línea 46)

## Contenido

Construct 3 Official Manual

WELCOME TO THE CONSTRUCT 3
MANUAL
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3

Welcome to the official Construct 3 manual! Construct 3 allows you to quickly and easily develop
games directly in your browser. This manual provides a comprehensive reference of all of
Construct 3's features.
The manual starts by covering the interface of Construct and how to get basic tasks done. Later
on it provides a detailed reference of all plugins and behaviors, including the System object.
Remember if you get stuck or run in to an issue, it's always worth checking the relevant manual
entry in case it includes information that will help you solve your problem.
Construct also has links to the manual in various dialogs and menus to help you jump directly to
the relevant manual page for that part of the software. Finally, dedicated users may want to read
the manual to learn about all the possible features you can take advantage of. There may be
many hidden gems you didn't know about, but are documented here in the manual.

Errata
If you find a mistake or omission in the documentation, please file an issue on the Construct
issue tracker with a link to the relevant manual entry and an explanation of what you think is
wrong. We'll take a look and make any necessary updates.

Creative Commons license
The Construct 3 manual is licensed under Creative Commons BY-SA 3.0. You are free to copy, republish, adapt, modify or otherwise use the material in the manual, providing you correctly
attribute its source.

Page 1 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

GET CONSTRUCT
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/getting-started/get-construct-3

Construct 3 runs right in your browser. There's nothing to download or install! Just visit
editor.construct.net in your browser on any modern browser and Construct 3 will start. This
makes it easy to switch between devices, use public computer terminals (even with strictly
limited access), or painlessly deploy Construct 3 across a computer lab or office.

Run Construct 3 as an app
You can add Construct 3 to your desktop or home screen (on mobile devices). This creates an
icon on your device to launch Construct 3 like an app. This is a great way to reach Construct 3
more easily, and also saves space on your screen since it hides the browser address bar and
tabs.
Sometimes an Install as app option will appear in the main menu when this option is available.
Click this menu option to install Construct as an app on your device. Sometimes an Install icon
will also appear in the address bar. Alternatively you can usually find an option to install
Construct in the browser menu in Chrome and Edge, possibly under the Save and share or Apps
submenu.
In Safari, you can find Add to home screen on iOS or Add to dock on macOS by pressing the
Share button.

Associate Construct with the .c3p file extension
Construct project files typically use the .c3p file extension. Once you have installed Construct as
an app, you can then double-click a .c3p file to open it directly in Construct. The first time you do
this, you may see a prompt asking you to confirm this is what you want to do. There should also
be a checkbox to remember your decision so you won't be prompted again.

Construct 3 in the Microsoft Store
If you use Windows 10+, you can also find Construct 3 in the Microsoft Store and install it from
there if you prefer.

Work offline
Construct works offline! You don't have to always have an active Internet connection. You only
need to be online the first time you load Construct. After Construct first starts, after a while you
should see a notification in the corner indicating Construct is ready to work offline. Make sure
you wait until you see that notification. Then Construct will continue to work even if you go
offline.

Page 2 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

It's more convenient to use Construct offline if you use the Add to desktop/shelf/homescreen
feature to create an icon on your device to run Construct, as described in the previous section.
We also recommend previewing a project while online to ensure the preview window is also
fully saved for use offline. While the Construct editor does attempt to save the preview
window for use offline when it starts up, some browser's rules about storage may block
Construct from saving it this way, and only allow it when directly accessing the preview
window.

Updates
Construct automatically stays up-to-date. It will notify you when there's a new version available,
and when it's updated. Our website also provides a list of all releases with detailed information
about changes in each update, and also provides links to run older versions in case there's a
problem with an update. You can check which version of Construct you're currently using by
opening Construct's main menu and selecting About.
You can opt in to email notifications when updates become available in your subscription
preferences. We also post news about updates on our Facebook page and Twitter account.

Page 3 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

USING AN ACCOUNT
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/getting-started/using-an-account

When you first start Construct, you'll use it as a Guest. This means you are not logged in to an
account. Construct shows your account status near the top-right corner. You can click this
"badge" to show a menu with some account options.

The Account menu

Account benefits
Until you purchase a subscription, Construct works in a limited Free edition mode, as indicated
by the "Free edition" label on the account badge. The limitations of the Free edition are listed on
the Construct 3 plans comparison page, where you can also purchase a subscription to remove
the limits.
Guests have lower limits in the Free edition than registered users. Guests may only use up to 25
events in a project. Registering an account and logging in to Construct allows you to use up to
40 events, and then verifying your email address allows you to use up to 50 events.
If you purchase Construct, you must be logged in with the same account you purchased with to
make use of the full features of Construct. The Free edition label next to your account will
disappear to indicate you have an active subscription and no longer have the Free edition limits
imposed.
At any time you can click the View details option in the Account menu to open a dialog
displaying more information about your account.

Working offline
If you purchase a subscription and work offline, you must start Construct while connected to the
Internet at least once every 7 days to re-validate your subscription. However if you have not
purchased a subscription, you can use Construct offline permanently.

Access codes
Page 4 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If you have an Education subscription, you can create a time-limited access code in the
subscriptions section of your profile. This allows students to use a licensed version of Construct
for a period of time. The access code can be used for simultaneous users, up to the number of
seats your subscription includes.
Once you have created an access code, share the code with your class. Students can then start
Construct, choose the Enter access code option in the Account menu, type in the access code,
and click OK. This will grant them access to the full version of Construct. This can also be done
with a Guest account, so students do not need to register their own accounts. Once the access
code expires, Construct will notify the user and revert back to the Free edition.
Access codes are designed for a classroom environment. Users with a Personal or Business
subscription don't need to use access codes.

Page 5 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CONSTRUCT ON MOBILE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/getting-started/on-mobile

Construct works on mobile devices like phones and tablets. (See System requirements for
supported devices.) These devices typically use touch input, and often have small screens. While
Construct can be used on a phone, it is much more comfortable to use a tablet device with a
larger screen if you have one available.
Not all features of Construct are available on mobile. It's intended for light usage, such as
reviewing and tweaking projects, rather than your main development work. For that we
recommend using a device with a keyboard and mouse.
Construct adapts its appearance to better suit these devices. On mobile it will look something
like this.

Construct mobile interface

This manual is written primarily for desktop devices, since that is what most people will use for
best productivity. However you can use touch equivalents to mouse clicks on mobile:
Where the manual says to click or select an item, simply tap on it.
Where the manual says to double-click, double-tap instead.
Page 6 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Where the manual says to right-click, or open a context menu, tap and hold on the item. After
a moment a menu will appear.

Accessing bars
Since most mobile devices have small screens, Construct hides bars by default. To access these
bars, swipe in from the side and the bar will slide in. Since there are a number of bars and only
two sides, you can access the other bars by repeatedly swiping in from the side again. As you
do this the previous bar will slide out and the next bar will slide in.
On the left side the sequence of bars is:
1

Properties Bar

2

Bookmarks Bar

3

Find Results bars

4

Z Order Bar

On the right side the sequence of bars is:
1

Project Bar

2

Layers Bar

3

Tilemap Bar

If you reach the end, the sequence will start again, cycling through the set of bars for that side of
the screen. Bars can be closed by swiping them back the other way. The next time you swipe in
from the side of the screen, you'll always get back the last bar you used that side. That helps you
keep using the same bar for a while, and you can still keep swiping to switch between bars at
any time.

Animations editor
When using the Animations Editor on mobile, the same approach of swiping in from the sides
can be used to access the Animation Editor's bars. This includes features like the color picker
and animation properties.

Changing UI mode
It's possible to connect up a mouse and keyboard to some mobile devices. If it has a large
screen, this lets you effectively use a tablet like a small laptop.
If you do this, Construct may still use the mobile UI intended for touchscreens. You can make
Construct switch in to desktop mode by opening Menu►Settings and changing the UI mode to
Desktop. This will always load Construct using the full desktop UI. If you disconnect your mouse
and keyboard and go back to using the touchscreen, you may want to switch the UI mode back
to Automatic or Mobile to restore the touchscreen UI.

Page 7 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/getting-started/systemrequirements

These are the minimum system requirements for Construct to run.

Internet connection
Construct can work offline. However you must be online to load Construct for the first time.
When you load Construct for the first time, wait until you see a notification in the corner
indicating Construct is ready to work offline. Then you can use Construct without an Internet
connection.
Note that if you purchase a subscription and work offline, you must start Construct while
connected to the Internet at least once every 7 days to re-validate your subscription. However if
you have not purchased a subscription, you can use Construct offline permanently.

Supported browsers
Construct should run in any modern browser. This includes:
Google Chrome 87+
Microsoft Edge 87+
Other browsers that use the Chrome browser engine (Chromium), such as Opera and
Yandex, providing they are updated to Chromium 87+
Firefox 125+
Safari 15.4+
While these are the minimum supported versions, we strongly recommend ensuring your
browser is up-to-date with the latest version.
Construct does not support Internet Explorer, which was retired by Microsoft in June 2022.
However in Windows 10 Microsoft replaced Internet Explorer with the Edge browser, which is
supported from version 87+. (Note the modern Chromium-based Microsoft Edge is supported,
but the legacy Edge is not supported.)

Supported operating systems
Construct should run on any modern, supported system with an up-to-date browser. This
includes:
Windows 10, 11 or newer

Page 8 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Mac: OS X / macOS 10.13 or newer
Linux: 64-bit Ubuntu 18.04+, Debian 10+, openSUSE 15.2+, or Fedora Linux 32+
Chrome OS: Any Chrome OS device updated to v87+
Android: Any Android 8.0+ device with at least 1GB RAM
iOS: Any iOS 15.4+ device
Some browsers still support older operating systems such as Windows 7. However these
are no longer officially supported and you may experience limited features if you continue to
use them.

WebGL support
Construct requires the browser to support WebGL, which is a modern high-performance
graphics technology for browsers. Almost all modern devices support WebGL. However if you
see a message about WebGL not being supported, try installing any available system updates,
and check your graphics drivers are up-to-date.

Page 9 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE START PAGE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/overview/start-page

When you first start Construct, it shows the Start Page. Note the appearance of the Start Page
changes depending on the size of the window or screen. It will look something like this on a
desktop display.

The Start Page in Construct

The Start Page gives you a useful starting point whenever you launch Construct. It provides
shortcuts for tasks like creating a new project, opening an existing project including recent
projects, and a set of useful links.
The Start Page initially fills the whole window. When you create or open a project, the rest of
Construct's interface will appear.

Starting a new project
Click New to create a new empty project. You'll be prompted for some basic details about the
project to create. You don't need to enter anything though, just click Create and you'll get a new
empty project with default settings.

Opening existing projects
You can open projects from several sources: Cloud (projects saved to a cloud storage service
like Google Drive), local files and folders (depending on browser support), or local browser
Page 10 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

storage. You can also find previously saved projects in the Recent projects section. For more
information about saving and loading projects, see Saving projects.

Example projects
Construct comes packed with hundreds of example projects for you to learn from, or just try out
for fun. Three randomly-picked recommended example projects appear along the bottom of the
Start Page. Click the Browse examples button to open the Example Browser. You can learn more
about it in the Example Browser manual entry.

Other resources
There are lots of links on the Start Page to other resources to help you get started and find out
more about Construct. You can find links to community resources like the forums, social media
accounts for Construct where you can follow news and updates, and other learning resources
like tutorials.

Page 11 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE EXAMPLE BROWSER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/overview/example-browser

Construct comes with hundreds of example projects to help you learn about it, as well as
demonstrate the range of creative possibilities with Construct. Note the appearance of the
Example Browser changes depending on the size of the window or screen. It will look something
like this on a desktop display.

The Example Browser in Construct

There are several ways to open the Example Browser. The main ways are:
Click Browse examples on the Start Page
Click one of the three recommended examples on the Start Page to open it in the Example
Browser
Select Menu►View►Example browser
When no project is open, the Example Browser fills the whole window, like the Start Page. This
makes it easier to browse the content. When you open a project, the rest of Construct's will
appear.

Browsing examples
Construct comes with hundreds of examples, so the Example Browser has lots of tags to help
organise them. These are broadly organised like so:
Page 12 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Levels: tags that indicate the approximate difficultly level to understand a project, covering
Beginner, Intermediate and Advanced.
Categories: tags describing broad categories of example projects. These include:
New: example projects added since the last stable release
Recommended: a hand-picked selection of the best or most interesting example projects
Demo game: complete games, covering title screens, multiple levels, and an ending
Guided tour: step-by-step interactive guides that show you how to get started with using
various features of Construct. These are great for beginners or quick introductions to
other features of Construct you might not have used before.
Game template: projects with a single level demonstrating a game concept
Barebones template: minimal projects with placeholder graphics demonstrating a game
concept
Gameplay mechanic: projects demonstrating a specific mechanic of a game, such as a
type of movement or special effect
Feature example: projects demonstrating some of Construct's features, showing how
they work and what they can do
Tech demo: performance benchmarks and other demonstrations of the capabilities of
Construct's engine
Coding: tags that specify whether the project uses coding, and if so what language. Note
that many coding examples come with both JavaScript and TypeScript variants. These tags
include:
Event sheets only: projects that do not use any coding at all, and solely use event sheets
for their logic.
JavaScript: projects that make use of JavaScript coding.
TypeScript: projects that make use of TypeScript coding.
Genres: tags indicating the game genre of the example (if applicable)
Tags: some other miscellaneous tags. These include:
3D: projects making use of Construct's various 3D features
Mesh distortion: projects making use of Construct's mesh distortion feature
Mobile: projects designed to work well on a mobile device with touch input
Performance: benchmarks or demonstrations of the performance of Construct's engine
Hierarchies: projects making use of Construct's hierarchies feature (i.e. connecting a
child object to a parent)
Timeline: projects making use of Construct's Timelines animation feature
Plugins: projects sorted by which plugins they use
Behaviors: projects sorted by which behaviors they use

Page 13 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Effects: projects sorted by which effects they use
Click a tag to toggle whether the list is filtering with that tag. A list of all filter tags appears in the
Filters section. Only projects matching all tags will be listed. By default the Recommended tag is
selected to show only the recommended example projects, but you can click the tag to remove it
and filter the list another way.
You can also enter search terms in the search box. The list will further be filtered down to those
matching both all tags and all the entered search terms.

Previewing and opening projects
Click a project's card to expand it and see more details about it.
You can quickly preview a project by clicking its Preview button. To open the project so you can
see how it works, click its card to expand it, then click the thumbnail image or the Open button.
Once open you can then also try it out by pressing the Preview button in the main toolbar, or by
pressing F5. Once you're done, close the project by selecting Menu►Project►Close project.
When the project closes, you'll see the Example Browser again where you can choose another
example project to preview or open.

Linking to examples
You can get a direct link to an example by right-clicking a card in the Example Project and
selecting Copy direct link. This will copy a link with the example embedded, such as
https://editor.construct.net/#open=kiwi-story. When visiting this link, Construct will load and
automatically open that project. This is a useful way to share examples.

Page 14 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CONSTRUCT'S INTERFACE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/overview/the-interface

The following image highlights the important parts of the Construct 3 user interface (UI) with
numbers. Click the image to enlarge it. An overview of each part is provided below, and later the
manual goes in to each section in more detail. Note that initially only the Start Page is visible.
Much of the interface will not appear until you create or open a project. Also note the exact
appearance of Construct can depend on which theme you have selected.

The Construct user interface

1

Main menu button: Click this to open the main menu. This provides options for basic tasks like
opening and closing projects, exporting, changing settings and so on.

2

Main toolbar: This provides shortcuts to the most commonly-used features: save, undo, redo
and preview. Note the arrows next to some buttons which provide a dropdown menu with more
options.

3

View tabs: These tabs let you switch the main view between different layouts (where you place
objects) and event sheets (where you define logic using the event system). You can customise
the color of these by right-clicking them and using the Colors menu.

4

Account badge: This shows your account status. Click it to show the Account menu.

5

Main view: This is where the currently selected Layout View or Event Sheet View appears. The
view tabs select which is visible. In this picture, it's showing an empty Layout View.

6

Properties bar: This lists all the properties for the selected item, allowing you to change settings
for it.

Page 15 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

7

Project bar: This lists everything in your project. It gives you an overview of what you've added,
and lets you navigate around the project as well, such as by opening layouts or event sheets to
view them.

8

Layers bar: When a Layout View is open, this shows the layers on the layout.

9

Tabs: By default the Layers bar and Tilemap bar are docked together. You can use these tabs to
switch between the bars. You can drag and drop bars around to rearrange them. You can dock or
tab together any combination of bars you want to customise the interface.

Changing the theme
You can choose a different theme to alter the appearance of Construct's interface, such as by
choosing a dark theme. The current theme can be changed from Settings. Third-party themes
can also be installed as addons.
Note that the precise appearance of the interface depends on which theme you are using. The
manual uses images based on the Default (no theme) style for a neutral appearance. If you
change the theme, note the interface may look different to images in the manual.

Page 16 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PROJECT STRUCTURE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/overview/project-structure

Construct projects consist of the following elements. These can be accessed via the Project Bar,
which contains a tree of all the elements in the project. Items in the Project Bar can also be
organised in to subfolders Paid plans only which is very useful for medium to large projects. For
more information, see the manual section on Project primitives.

Layouts
Layouts are levels, menus, title screens and other pre-arranged layouts of objects. In other tools
Layouts may be referred to as scenes, rooms, frames or stages. See the section on Layouts for
more information.
Layouts also consist of multiple Layers, which can be used to arrange objects in to background
and foreground layers. These are managed with the Layers Bar.

Event Sheets
Event Sheets are a list of Events defining the game logic. In Construct, Events are the alternative
to programming or scripting. Layouts have an associated Event Sheet for their logic. Event
sheets can be re-used between different layouts with event sheet includes. Event sheets are
edited in the Event Sheet View.
For more information on events, see the manual section on Events, especially the page on How
events work.

Object Types
An Object Type defines a 'class' of object. For example, TrollEnemy and OgreEnemy could be
different object types. Multiple instances of an object type can be created. For example there
could be three instances of the TrollEnemy object type, and five instances of the OgreEnemy
object type.
It is important to be clear on the difference between object types and instances: they will be
referred to as different things throughout the manual. For more information, see the manual
entries for Plugins, Object Types and Instances.
Object Types can also be grouped in to Families Paid plans only.

System object
The System object represents built-in functionality in Construct. It is the only object an empty
project contains. It cannot be added again or removed from a project. There are no instances of

Page 17 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

the System object: it is simply always present and provides access to the built-in aspects of
Construct's engine. Its conditions, actions and expressions are documented in the System
reference. Note the System object does not appear in the Project Bar, but it is still an important
part of the project.

Sounds and Music
These are audio files used for sound effects and music in the game. Sounds should be used for
short-duration sound effects that are played when events like collisions and explosions happen.
Music should be used for the longer musical tracks. It is important to organise audio files
appropriately, because Sounds are loaded completely before playing, but Music is streamed.
This means if a Music track is accidentally put in the Sounds folder, it would have to completely
loaded before it started playing. However, audio in the Music folder can start playing
immediately since it is streamed. For more information see Sounds & Music.

Timelines and eases
Timelines are pre-designed sequences of changes over time. They often cover movement, such
as changing an object's position, angle and size over time, but can affect many other kinds of
properties too. To learn more about creating timelines, see the section on the Timeline Bar.
Eases are animation functions that determine how changes happen over time. There are a
number of built-in eases in Construct, but custom ones can be designed in the editor too.

Scripts
Construct also supports JavaScript and TypeScript coding in the editor. Event sheets can be
combined with code, or code can be written in separate files. When using script files, they are
added in the Scripts section of the Project Bar. For more information see the dedicated manual
section on Scripting.

Project Files
Additional files can be imported to or created in the project. These can then be loaded and used
in your project. This also covers using a variety of media files in your project, such as videos and
web fonts. For more information, see Project Files. Construct also provides some file editors
Paid plans only for conveniently editing data files.

Page 18 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SAVING PROJECTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/overview/saving-projects

In Construct, there are several ways you can save your work. By default pressing Save on a new
project will save with Cloud Save. You can select a different option, as well as change the save
option at any time, in the Menu►Project►Save as menu.

Cloud save
You can save your work to a cloud storage services, allowing you to access your work wherever
you go. Since Construct runs in the browser and can be used on any device, this is a great way to
ensure you can carry on from where you left off no matter which device you end up using. Many
cloud storage services also provide built-in backups and file histories, helping ensure your work
is safe even in the face of disaster.
Construct currently supports Google Drive, Microsoft OneDrive and Dropbox. The first time you
select Menu►Project►Save as►Cloud save, a dialog will appear asking you to choose one of
the supported services. When you choose one, you'll be prompted to log in to your cloud storage
account, so Construct has permission to save and open files from your account. Once you've
entered your details they will be remembered, so you can keep using Cloud Save without having
to keep entering your details.
Remember that your Cloud Save login is separate to your Construct login. The fact you are
signed in to one does not automatically mean you are signed in to the other.
When you press Save with a Cloud Save project, Construct will save your project and upload it to
your cloud storage account. The upload will continue in the background showing the upload
status in the corner of the window, allowing you to continue working on your project. Note you
cannot save again until the upload completes.
Next time you use Construct, you can choose Menu►Project►Cloud open to find your project
again. It'll also appear in the Recent projects section of the Start Page.

Download a copy
Select Menu►Project►Save as►Download a copy to download your project as a local file.
Construct will ask if you want to change the downloaded filename; you can leave it empty to use
the default. Construct projects use the .c3p file extension. Normally the file will go to your
Downloads folder, but you may also be prompted to save to a different location depending on the
browser. Alternatively you can usually drag-and-drop the resulting file directly out of the browser,
such as from Google Chrome's downloads footer section.

Page 19 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Note that despite the name, this does not actually download a file from the Internet. All the
project data is stored locally. The term Download refers to invoking the browser's download UI to
save your project to a local file.

Using local files
Currently some browsers such as Chrome support saving files directly to your system. This
means you can use the Menu►Project►Save as►Save as single file... option to save your
project as a local file anywhere on your system. To open a local file, choose the
Menu►Project►Open local file option. Then when you make changes and click the Save button,
it will write back over the file you originally opened. You may see a permission prompt from the
browser asking if you want to allow access to the file; be sure to allow permission to ensure your
save works correctly.
When saving to local files, be sure to set up backups to help avoid the risk of losing your
work in the event of disaster. You can enable automatic backups in Construct's settings. See
best practices for more information.

Using project folders
Where browsers support local files, they also allow the option to use project folders. These work
similarly to saving local files, but instead of choosing a file, you select a folder to save to.
Construct then saves the entire project as separate files within this folder. Be sure to choose an
empty folder to avoid ending up with a confusing mix of files.
This option is good for very large projects, since saves are faster, as it only has to update the
changed files in the folder, rather than generate an entire new .c3p file. It is also a good option to
use with source control tools like GitHub, since you can track changes to individual text-based
files - for a guide on that see the tutorial How to collaborate on Construct projects with GitHub.
This option can also be useful if you work with lots of JavaScript files in a Construct project and
want to use an external editor with them. When saving as a folder project, new options will
appear in the menu when right-clicking the script folder in the Project Bar. These options allow
you to reload all script files from the project folder again either as a one off (also by pressing F9),
or automatically every time the project is previewed. Note this reloading cannot be undone, so
make sure you always make edits in the same place, as alterations within Construct will be
overwritten when reloading. A similar approach is also used for using TypeScript in Construct.
Construct's .c3p files are actually just a zipped folder project, with the extension .zip
replaced with .c3p. You can convert a .c3p file to a folder project by renaming .c3p to .zip
and extracting it. Similarly you can convert a folder project to a .c3p by zipping it, and
renaming .zip to .c3p.

Page 20 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

When saving to local folders, be sure to set up backups to help avoid the risk of losing your
work in the event of disaster. You can enable automatic backups in Construct's settings. See
best practices for more information.

Save to local browser
If saving local files is not supported, Construct provides an option to save projects to the local
browser's storage instead. This storage is unique to both the specific device and browser. So for
example if you save a project to browser storage on a specific laptop with Chrome, you can only
find it again by using the same browser (Chrome) on the same device (that specific laptop).
Construct will ask for permission to use persistent storage the first time you use this option, to
ensure the browser won't automatically delete your data. Note browsers sometimes also have
storage limits. You can also check the status of the persistent storage permission, as well as
how much space the browser is allowed to use and how much it is using, in the About dialog.
If you use this option, be very careful about clearing your browser data. If you choose the
wrong option while clearing browser data, you could still erase all your projects saved to
browser storage. For this reason, using a different save option where possible is
recommended.

Page 21 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SHARING PROJECTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/overview/sharing-projects

The easiest and quickest way to share your project so someone else can run it is using Remote
Preview Paid plans only. For more information see Testing projects.
If you want people to play your finished project, you should Export it. This produces a playable
game ready for publishing. See the section on publishing projects.

Share a project file
You can also save as a single file, or use the Download a copy option, to get a single .c3p file
representing your entire project. Then you can share that file using other tools and services, such
as by attaching it to an email, or uploading it to a storage service.

Shared folders in cloud save
If you want to share your Construct 3 project itself, shared folders that you have access to also
appear in Cloud Save when using Google Drive or Microsoft OneDrive. This can be useful for
conveniently sharing your project files. For example in a classroom, all the students could save
their work to a shared folder that the teacher has access to. Then the teacher has an easy way
to access all the student's work.
All cloud save services also provide their own sharing options via their websites, e.g. for sharing
a file on your account with someone else.

Sharing with subscription administrator
For education accounts, there is also a Share with admin option that appears in the Project
menu. This only appears for two kinds of accounts:
When using access codes
When using an account created for a seat as part of an education subscription
In both cases, choosing Share with admin will upload the project to a server operated by Scirra. It
will then be made available to the administrator who created the access code or seat account.
The administrator can find it by visiting the Your subscriptions section of their account, and
clicking the N shared projects link next to the relevant education subscription (e.g. 10 shared
projects if ten projects had been uploaded this way).
This approach is pseudonymous - only the access code or account username, plus the studententered filename, are provided. Further the project files are automatically deleted after a couple
of days. Therefore no information is permanently stored when using this option.

Page 22 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

COLLABORATING ON PROJECTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/overview/collaborating-projects

Currently Construct does not support any real-time online collaboration, due to the extreme
technical complexity of the feature. However you can use existing source control tools like Git
and SVN to manage collaborative changes by a team working on the same project.
Source control tools were designed for programmers, but they work well with Construct as well.
Make sure you use a folder-based project (see Saving projects) in a browser that supports it, e.g.
Chrome. This saves your project as a series of individual files within a folder. Then when you
make changes, these will appear in source control tools as a series of smaller changes to
individual files. Construct's main project data files are in the text-based JSON format, which
works well for identifying and merging changes. Each team member can then submit their
changes, and these will all be merged in to a single folder-based project. If team members
submit contradictory changes, these tools also provide options to resolve the conflict.
When using source control, be sure to configure the tool to ignore .uistate.json files.
These are only used to restore the user interface (UI) state for individual team members, and
aren't meant to be shared. These files are also optional and can be deleted at any time
(although Construct's user interface will revert to defaults in places). Leaving these files out
of source control will make sure each team member's user interface remains as they prefer,
and avoids having to submit unnecessary changes.
It's also advisable to change the UID numbering project property to Random when collaborating
on projects. This changes UIDs assigned in the editor from incrementing (e.g. 1, 2, 3, 4...) to
random (e.g. 582953, 295630...). This helps avoid potential problems that may arise when two
people working on the same project create two different instances which each get assigned the
same UID.
Web services like GitHub also exist to simplify setting up and running source control, and these
too can be used with Construct folder projects. For a guide on how to set up working on a
Construct project on GitHub, see the tutorial How to collaborate on Construct projects with
GitHub.

Page 23 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TESTING PROJECTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/overview/testing-projects

To test your project during development, you can preview it by clicking the "play" icon in the main
toolbar, by selecting Menu►Project►Preview, by right-clicking a layout in the Project Bar and
selecting Preview, or by pressing F5. This will start your game from the current layout.
By default, starting a preview opens a popup window. You may see a message that the popup
was blocked. Clicking Try again normally works, but to permanently prevent the message
appearing you may need to change your browser's settings. Usually an icon or message will
appear somewhere in the browser interface indicating a popup was blocked; clicking this usually
provides a way to always allow popups for the current website.
In Menu►Settings, you can choose different preview modes. The three options are:
Popup window: as described above, opens a popup window to run the project in.
Browser tab: opens a new browser tab to run the project in.
Dialog: opens a dialog inside the Construct interface to run the project in. This does not use
a new browser window so is not subject to popup blockers, and does not include other
browser interface items like the address bar. However it cannot appear larger than, or
outside of, the Construct window.
If you select Preview again with a preview already running, the existing preview window or dialog
will restart and begin previewing the latest version of your project.

Multiple preview windows
Sometimes it's useful to have multiple simultaneous preview windows open, such as for testing
multiplayer games. To open an additional preview window you can use any of the following
methods:
Click the dropdown arrow by the preview button, and choose Add another layout/project
preview
Hold Alt while clicking the preview button
Use the Alt + 4 or Alt + 5 keyboard shortcuts to start an additional preview of the project or
layout, respectively

Other preview types
In the main toolbar, there is a dropdown arrow next to the Preview button that shows a menu
with more preview options. These can also be found in the Menu►Project submenu, or by rightclicking the project name in the Project Bar.

Page 24 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Debug layout
This runs the current layout in a special debug mode. The debugger is a special development
tool which helps you inspect the state of the project (such as the value of expressions and
variables). It also provides diagnostic tools such as advancing the game frame-by-frame,
changing values, destroying objects, setting breakpoints in events, and more. This can bring
invaluable insight to how your project is working, particularly if you run in to a problem. For more
information see the manual section on the Debugger.

Preview project
This starts a preview from the first layout in the project. This is either the first layout that
appears in the Project Bar, or whichever layout is set in the First layout project property.

Remote preview
Paid plans only This allows you to preview your project on a different device. It is also useful for
testing different browsers on the same device. Starting a Remote Preview does not actually
directly run your game. It will open a window that provides a special URL you can use to load the
game, or a QR code to scan. All you need to do is open the URL on another browser or device, or
share the URL with someone else, or scan the QR code, and the project will start to load and run
in the browser. The project is loaded directly from your device using a peer-to-peer connection it is not uploaded anywhere else, but is still accessible from anywhere on the Internet. The game
is no longer available from the provided URL as soon as you close the Remote Preview window,
or press the Stop button.
You can dock the Remote Preview window somewhere else in the user interface, much like you
can with bars like the Project Bar and Properties Bar. This can be a useful way to keep it out of
the way when hosting a long-running Remote Preview session while continuing to edit the
project. When the Remote Preview window is resized to a narrow width it will use a simplified
display with less information to better fit in a bar docked to the side of the main Construct
window.
Once a different browser starts running the project by loading the Remote Preview link, it will
appear in the Remote Preview window as a connected client. You can have multiple copies of
the project running simultaneously.

Page 25 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

You can view some basic system details and real-time performance information for connected
clients, including their browser and operating system, which layout they are on, the framerate
and approximate CPU usage (and approximate GPU usage if available), and their graphics
hardware. You can also click Request video to see a video stream of what that client can see.
There is also a dropdown to choose a different first layout in case you want to test a specific
layout with Remote Preview.
Like with a normal preview, you can update a remote preview by pressing the Preview button
again. This updates the version of the project available at the same URL. Existing clients will be
notified of an update and will see the update if they manually reload. Alternatively clicking the
Reload all button will force all clients to reload. If you want to switch to a different kind of
preview, such as the usual local preview or to use the debugger, then stop or close Remote
Preview before selecting a new preview option.
Clients who are viewing your project via Remote Preview will see notifications in the following
situations:
When the host updates the project, clients will see a notification indicating an update is
available. They must reload their browser to load the new version.
When the host closes the Remote Preview window or presses the Stop button, the remote
preview ends. Clients will see a notification that the host disconnected. Clients can continue
to run the project (they are not cut off), but if they reload the project will no longer be
available.
When the host starts or stops video the client will be notified.
Remote Preview allows you to instantly share your project to anyone in the world with an
Internet connection. This is particularly useful if you have remote testers or reviewers. On the
other hand you can use the remote preview URL on the same device for cross-browser testing,
such as using Remote Preview to test your project in Firefox while Construct runs in Chrome. In
Page 26 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

this case data is not sent over the Internet and is only transferred across the local system.
Similarly if you Remote Preview to a device on the same local area network (LAN), such as a
mobile device, most browsers will try to establish a local connection for data transfer ensuring
the project can load at a much faster LAN speed rather than transferring via the Internet.

Page 27 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PUBLISHING PROJECTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/overview/publishing-projects

To publish a project, use the Menu►Project►Export option. Construct allows you to export to a
range of platforms, such as the web (HTML5), Android and iOS (via Cordova), and desktop apps
(via Windows/macOS wrappers or NW.js). Each platform has an accompanying tutorial to guide
you through how the exporter works and covering any exporter-specific settings. Note in some
cases fees may be involved, such as for developer subscriptions to allow uploading to app
stores, or for hosting web content if you don't already have a server.
Every kind of export has the following common settings:
Deduplicate images will search the entire project for identical images and remove the
duplicates. This helps save memory and reduce the download size by removing redundant
images.
Lossless format lets you choose what format to export images in your project set to use
lossless quality (i.e. perfect).
Lossy format lets you choose what format to export images in your project set to use lossy
quality (i.e. allowing some reduction in quality in order to allow a greater reduction in the file
size).
Optimize images will optimize all the lossless images in the project with enhanced
compression. This spends longer trying to compress images to an even smaller size. This
can make exporting take longer but sometimes significantly reduces the download size of
the exported project. This process is lossless, so is guaranteed to preserve the quality of all
your artwork.
Minify script will obfuscate and compress the main JavaScript file for your exported project.
This also helps reduce the download size, improves load time, and makes it significantly
more difficult to reverse-engineer the project. Normally Advanced mode is safe to use, but if
you use the scripting feature you may want to switch to Simple mode or adjust how you write
your code - see Exporting with Advanced minification in the scripting section for more
details.
Minifying script uses a cloud service, so you must be connected to the Internet for it to
work.

Debug advanced mode is only intended for diagnosing possible problems with Advanced
mode - don't use it when publishing your finished project.

Page 28 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Each option helps optimise the exported project, but can make the export take longer. It is
recommended to enable deduplication, image optimization and script minification when
exporting the final finished project for publishing. However if you are simply doing a trial export,
you may wish to disable them to speed up the process.
Web-based export options also have a checkbox to enable Offline support. This is enabled by
default and allows all exported projects to continue to work offline after the first time they are
loaded (see Offline games in Construct for more details). However this can sometimes interfere
with testing if you are regularly updating a web-hosted project, so it can be disabled, but it is
recommended to leave it enabled when publishing for release.
Most export options will prompt you for additional settings specific to that exporter. For example
the Android exporter has a setting for the minimum supported Android version.
When the export finishes, you will be provided with a link to download a zip file containing the
final exported project. You can also view some statistics about the export, such as how much
download size was saved by image optimization (if it was enabled). The Export Manager can
also be used to find the last few exported projects and download them again.

More information about publishing
The publishing process is different depending on the chosen export option. The Tutorials section
has guides to help you export to each platform. Here are some to get you started:
Publishing to the web
Publishing to the Scirra Arcade
How to publish mobile apps
Exporting to Windows
Exporting to macOS

Page 29 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE MAIN MENU
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/main-menu

Click the Menu button next to the main toolbar to access the main menu. Note the exact options
which appear in the menu depend on whether you have a project open, and whether you are
logged in.

The menu structure, as a guest with a project open (which shows most options), is as follows:
Project
Save: save the current project to its last saved location. If it has not been saved before,
this will use the Default save location in Settings.
Save As (see Saving projects for more information)
Cloud save: save to a cloud storage service.
Save as single file (where supported by the browser): save to a local .c3p file
representing the entire project.
Save as project folder (where supported by the browser): save as multiple files in a
local folder, which is more suitable for large projects.
Save to local browser (where file/folder options are not supported): save to the
browser's storage on the device.
Download a copy: save a copy of the current project by downloading a file.
Preview: run a preview of the current layout.

Page 30 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Remote Preview: start a Remote Preview of the current project. See Testing projects.
Debug: run a preview of the current layout with the debugger.
Export: export the current project for publishing. See Publishing projects.
Close project: close the current project, prompting to save if there are any changes.
New: create a new empty project.
Open: open a previously saved project from the cloud, local browser, or a local file. See
Saving & sharing projects.
Guided tours: these are a series of interactive, step-by-step tutorials shown within the editor
itself. They're a great way to learn about the basics of Construct.
View
Bars: in this submenu, you can hide and show any of the bars visible in the interface. If a
bar is missing, use this menu to bring it back.
Start page: show or hide the Start Page.
Addon manager: open the Addon Manager to view and manage addons. See Installing
third-party addons.
Export manager: open the Export Manager dialog, which lists the last few exports and
allows you to download them again.
Account (see Using an account)
Register...: register a new account to use with Construct.
Log in: log in to an existing account.
Enter access code: enter an access code to allow temporary use of the full version of
Construct. This is typically used by educational institutions only.
View details: open a dialog displaying more information about the current account.
Get addons: visit the Addon exchange on the Construct website where you can find new
plugins, behaviors, effects and themes for Construct.
Asset Store: visit the Asset Store on the Construct website to find art assets, sounds/music,
templates, other software and much more.
Settings: customise Construct's settings to work the way you prefer. See Settings for more
information.
Help: opens this manual.
About: open a dialog displaying information about this version of Construct, as well as
credits, storage information and diagnostic details.

Page 31 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE MAIN TOOLBAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/main-toolbar

The main toolbar provides quick access to a few of the most commonly-used options in
Construct. It appears next to the main menu button.

The main toolbar

The main toolbar has the following buttons:
Save: save the current project to its last saved location. If the project has not been saved yet,
this defaults to Cloud Save. For more information see Saving & sharing projects.
Undo and Redo: undo the last performed action in the editor. After pressing undo, you can
then redo the action again. Click the dropdown arrow next to the button to see a list of the
undo or redo actions. Selecting an item from the list will undo or redo all the actions up to
the chosen item.
Preview: run a preview of the current layout. By default this opens a popup window; you may
be prompted to allow popups. Click the dropdown arrow next to the button to see a list of
other kinds of preview. For more information see Testing projects. The dropdown arrow
menu also allows changing the function of the button to one of the other options, such as
Debug layout.

Page 32 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

BARS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars

In Construct, many features appear in Bars. These are the panes that appear at the sides of the
window by default.
Note that bars work differently on mobile devices. See Construct on mobile for more
information.
Bars can be rearranged in the interface to suit your tastes. Drag-and-drop a bar by its caption to
move it. They can be left "floating" (appearing on their own anywhere in the Construct window),
or "docked" to a side of the window, or with another bar. When you are dragging a bar, indicators
will appear on screen as you move it around, showing where you can dock it. Move the mouse
over one of the indicators and release the mouse button to dock the bar at that location. You can
dock bars over other bars, which creates a split view, or directly on top to create a tabbed view of
multiple bars.
You can reset the layout of the bars by clicking the Reset bars & dialogs button in Settings and
then reloading Construct.

Opening separate windows
You can open bars in to a separate window and use them outside of the main window. This is
especially useful on multi-monitor displays, allowing you to move editors to other monitors.
To open a popup window, undock a bar so that it is floating. Then right-click in the bar's caption
at the top, and select Open to popup window.
When you close the popup window, the bar will automatically re-appear as floating in the main
window.

Page 33 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ASSET BROWSER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/asset-browserbar

The Asset Browser is used to browse for assets and quickly import them into a project.

The asset browser

There are four main sources for assets that can be picked from the dropdown menu:
1

Store free bundled assets: these asset packs are bundled with C3 and available to all accounts,
free and subscribed.

2

Store premium bundled assets: these asset packs are bundled with C3 and are available to
accounts with an active subscription only.

3

Store purchased assets: these asset packs are the ones that have been purchased in Scirra's
Asset Store.

4

Local assets: the asset browser can be used select one or more folders in the local file system.
This feature's availability is subject to browser support.

Importing assets
Assets can be imported into a project in three main ways:
Double clicking

The quickest way to import a single asset. Depending on the type of the asset, something
different will happen when importing. Below is a table showing how the different types will
be handled.
Type
Images

Description
Are imported as a new Sprite with a single animation and a single frame.

Page 34 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Type
Description
Animations Formats such as .gif, are imported as a new Sprite with an animation with as many frames as the asset has.
Are imported as a project file in the project's Files folder and a new SVG Picture using the corresponding project file. An
SVG
instance is created in the middle of the currently active layout view.
A dialog appears before importing audio assets to choose their destination and are then imported into either the Music or
Audio
Sounds project folder.
Videos
Are imported into the Videos project folder.
Fonts
Are imported into the Fonts project folder.
Scripts
Are imported into the Scripts project folder.
Other
Other supported types are imported into the Files project folder.

Double clicking on a folder will just open it, use the other methods to import all the contents
of a folder at the same time.

Drag & Drop

Assets can be dragged and dropped onto the layout view or the project bar to import them
into the project. Below is a table showing how the different types will be handled.
Type

Images

Description
A dialog appears with options about how the assets should be treated:
As object types: will create a new object type for each asset, each one using an asset as it's image.
As single object type: will create a single object type with an animation with as many frames as assets where selected.
As icons: all assets are imported into the Icons & screenshots project folder.

This applies for animated formats, such as .gif or .apng. A dialog appears with options about how the assets should be treated:
As object types: will create a new object type for each selected asset, each one with an animation with as many frames as
each asset has.
Animations
As single object type: will create a single new object type with a unique animation for each imported asset.
SVG
Audio
Videos
Fonts
Scripts
Other

Are imported as a project file in the project's Files folder and a new SVG Picture using the corresponding project file.
A dialog appears before importing audio assets to choose their destination:
As music: all the assets are imported into the Music project folder.
As sound: all the assets are imported into the Sounds project folder.
Are imported into the Videos project folder.
Are imported into the Fonts project folder.
Are imported into the Scripts project folder.
Other supported types are imported into the Files project folder.

Dropping a single asset has the same effect as double clicking it.

Dropping on the layout view will create needed instances in the dropped position. Dropping
on the project bar will only create object types.

Dropping multiple assets of different types will show any relevant intermediate dialogs to
decide what to do with each asset type.

Dragging and dropping a folder will import all the assets, showing any relevant intermediate

Page 35 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

dialogs to decide what to do with each type of asset.

Context menu

Assets can also be imported by clicking on the import option at the top of the context menu
for a given asset. In the case of selecting a single asset or many assets of the same type,
there will be a single import option. If the context menu is brought up when multiple assets
of different types are selected, there will be options to import the assets of each type
individually.

The context menu for folders will show the import options for all the asset types in the
folder.

Importing zip files
Zip files have a slightly different workflow to regular assets. After using any of the methods
described previously to import, a dialog appears to choose which files of the zip file should be
imported and what to do with them in the cases there are multiple options for them.

Zip import dialog showing all possible options

The image shows what the dialog looks like when the zip file has files of all the supported
formats. In cases in which a format is not present in the zip file, then the corresponding option
will not be shown in the dialog.
To import all the files of a given type tick the corresponding checkbox, if the asset type has
additional options about how the assets should be treated, select it from the corresponding
dropdown. Below is a table with all the possible options.

Page 36 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Type

Description