# Manual Construct 3  Parte 6 (líneas 60017200)

## Resumen
- See also: Event Sheet View (línea 7)
- Ctrl + + Increase text size (línea 8)
- Ctrl + - Decrease text size (línea 9)
- Ctrl + L or Shift + S Go to associated layout (if any - event sheets only used via includes have (línea 10)
- no associated layout) (línea 11)
- Ctrl + Home Go to top of sheet (línea 12)
- Ctrl + End Go to bottom of sheet (línea 13)
- F2 Toggle bookmark at selected event (línea 14)
- Ctrl + F2 Go to next bookmark in project (línea 15)
- Shift + F2 Go to previous bookmark in project (línea 16)
- F3 Toggle breakpoint (línea 17)
- A Add action (línea 22)
- Shift + A Add custom action (línea 28)
- B Add blank subevent (línea 29)
- C Add condition (línea 30)
- D Toggle selected items disabled (línea 31)
- E Add event below (línea 32)
- Shift + E Add event above (línea 33)
- F Add function (línea 34)
- G Add group (línea 35)

## Contenido

See also: Event Sheet View
Ctrl + + Increase text size
Ctrl + - Decrease text size
Ctrl + L or Shift + S Go to associated layout (if any - event sheets only used via includes have
no associated layout)
Ctrl + Home Go to top of sheet
Ctrl + End Go to bottom of sheet
F2 Toggle bookmark at selected event
Ctrl + F2 Go to next bookmark in project
Shift + F2 Go to previous bookmark in project
F3 Toggle breakpoint
🡑 and 🡓 Move the selection up and down the event sheet
🡐 and 🡒 Move the selection sideways between Events, Conditions and Actions
- Insert event above
+ Insert event below
A Add action

Page 203 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Shift + A Add custom action
B Add blank subevent
C Add condition
D Toggle selected items disabled
E Add event below
Shift + E Add event above
F Add function
G Add group
I Invert selected conditions
J Add script (script block if event selected, or script action if action selected)
Shift + J Add script action (regardless of selection)
N Add include
P Add parameter to function
R Replace object
Q Add comment (block comment if event selected, or action comment if action selected)
Shift + Q Add action comment (regardless of selection)
S Add subevent
V Add variable
X Add 'Else' event following selected event
Y Toggle 'Or' block
In the Parameters Dialog, press F4 to toggle the Expressions Dictionary.

Animations Editor
See also: Animations Editor
B Brush tool
E Eraser tool
F Fill tool

Page 204 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

I Color picker tool
L Line tool
N Pencil tool
R Rectangle tool
S Rectangle select tool
T Ellipse tool
Shift + I Image points tool
Shift + P Collision polygon tool
C Clear image
Ctrl + E Export image
Ctrl + M Mirror image
Ctrl + F Flip image
Ctrl + R Rotate image clockwise
Ctrl + L Rotate image anti-clockwise
Alt + C Crop image
Alt + R Resize image
Ctrl + B Toggle background color
Ctrl + G Toggle grid
Shift + O Toggle onion skin Paid plans only
Ctrl + 1 Zoom to fit
Quick assign origin and image points:
Num pad 1 or End Bottom left
Num pad 2 Bottom
Num pad 3 or Page down Bottom right
Num pad 4 Left
Num pad 5 Center
Num pad 6 Right
Page 205 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Num pad 7 or Home Top left
Num pad 8 Top
Num pad 9 or Page up Top right
Arrow keys Nudge 1 pixel
Hold Shift to apply the origin/image point to the entire animation. Shift + Click also applies
that positioning to the entire animation.
Shift + Crop button or Alt + Shift + C Crop entire animation
Shift + Mirror button or Ctrl + Shift + M Mirror entire animation
Shift + Flip button or Ctrl + Shift + F Flip entire animation
Shift + Rotate Clockwise button or Ctrl + Shift + R Rotate entire animation clockwise
Shift + Rotate Anticlockwise button or Ctrl + Shift + L Rotate entire animation anticlockwise
Animations only:
Ctrl + Up Previous animation
Ctrl + Down Next animation
Ctrl + Left Previous animation frame
Ctrl + Right Next animation frame
Ctrl + P Start / restart preview animation
Ctrl + Shift + P Close animation preview

Timeline Bar
See also: Timeline Bar
E Toggle timeline edit mode
S Set or update master keyframes and property keyframes at the current time marker position
Ctrl + D Disable the current selection of timeline elements
Ctrl + E Enable the current selection of timeline elements
M Add missing property keyframes at the current time marker position using the current instance
values (a master keyframe must exist at the position for this shortcut to work)
Ctrl + M Add missing property keyframes at the current time marker position using values which
seamlessly fit in the timeline (a master keyframe must exist at the position for this shortcut to
Page 206 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

work)
Space Preview/pause the current timeline
Ctrl + Space Stop the current timeline if it is being previewed
Shift + , Move the play head to the first master keyframe
, Move the play head to the previous master keyframe
. Move the play head to the next master keyframe
Shift + . Move the play head to the last master keyframe
Hold Ctrl while dragging the current time marker to move the marker without previewing the
timeline
Hold Shift while dragging keyframes to duplicate the dragged selection into the new position
Ctrl + X Cut the current keyframe selection
Ctrl + C Copy the current keyframe selection
Ctrl + P Paste keyframes using the current time marker as reference.
If no tracks are selected at the moment of pasting, the keyframes will be added in their
respective tracks.
If there are tracks selected at the moment of pasting, an attempt is made to paste the keyframes
into the tracks they would fit best. If there are keyframes in the selection which can't be fit
anywhere, they are ignored.
Esc Clear highlighting on all timeline elements
Ctrl + Mouse Wheel to scale the timeline UI
Alt + T Add position property tracks in the current timeline
Alt + S Add size property tracks in the current timeline
Alt + Z Add a Z elevation property track in the current timeline
Alt + A Add an angle property track in the current timeline
Alt + O Add an opacity property track in the current timeline
Alt + C Add a colour property track in the current timeline

Tilemap bar
See also: Tilemap Bar

Page 207 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Esc or 1 Restore normal layout editing
2 - 6 Switch tilemap tool
X Mirror tile or patch
Y Flip tile or patch
Z Rotate tile or patch clockwise
A Rotate tile or patch anti-clockwise
R Reset all transforms
Hold Shift with any tile drawing tool to temporarily switch to the Select tool. Releasing Shift
returns to the previous tool.
Hold Ctrl with pencil tool to erase tiles
Hold Ctrl with eraser tool to erase single tiles
Hold Ctrl with rectangle tool to erase tiles in the drawn rectangle

Ease editor
See also: Ease Editor
Hold Ctrl when dragging an anchor point to also modify the adjacent anchor point if there is
any.

Flowchart View
See also: Flowchart View
Ctrl + A Select all nodes.
Ctrl + Mouse Wheel Up Zoom in.
Ctrl + Mouse Wheel Down Zoom out.
Middle mouse button drag or Hold space and move mouse Pan the view
Hold Shift while selecting nodes and outputs to add them to the same selection to be able to
drag or delete them at the same time.
Backspace or Delete to delete the current selection of nodes, outputs or links.

Page 208 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PROJECTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/projects

A project is a complete game, app or animation made in Construct. Projects contain every
element of your work, ranging from sprites to sound files. An overview of the project is shown in
the Project Bar where elements can be added, renamed, removed and arranged in to folders for
organisation. See Project structure for a summary of the elements making up a project. The rest
of this manual section goes in to more detail about each part of a project.
Projects can be opened, closed and exported from the main menu. See also Saving and sharing
projects, testing and publishing. It is recommended to follow some best practices while working
on projects.

Project properties
The properties for a project can be edited in the Properties Bar after selecting the name of the
project in the Project Bar, or using the Project properties shortcut in Layout Properties.
The Name, Author and Description properties are used for some of the export options, so be sure
to fill them out accurately for any important projects.

About
Name

The name or title of the project.
Version

The version of the project, which conventionally is four numbers in descending importance
(e.g. 1.0.0.0), where the first number is the major version and the last number is the revision
number. This is also used by several exporters to assign the version to your published app.
Note: different platforms have their own way of handling the version. To ensure the version
works consistently across platforms, try to follow these rules with the project version:
Use 3 or 4 version components (using too few could become limiting)
Don't exceed the range 0-99 for any particular component. E.g. instead of incrementing
1.0.0.99 to 1.0.0.100, increment the next component, using 1.0.1.0.
Enable Auto-increment version (see below), as some platforms do not allow you to
publish an update unless the version is higher.

Page 209 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Auto-increment version

When enabled, every time you export the project, Construct will automatically increment the
fourth number of the Version property. For example if the version is 1.4.0.0, when you export
it will increment to 1.4.0.1, 1.4.0.2 etc. Note that this only supports numerical version
components separated by a dot - it will not work with other version formats like "1.4a", "rev2"
etc.
Description

A sentence or two giving a short summary of the project. Several exporters use this as the
description for your published app.
ID

An ID uniquely identifying your application. This should be in reverse domain format, such as
com.mycompany.myproject. Some exporters use this as the ID for your exported app, so try
to ensure it will be unique.
Author

The name of the individual or organisation developing the project.
Email

A support or contact email address for the project. Some exporters use this to fill out the
Email field of the published app.
Website

A link to the author's website or other related web address. Your site should be hosted
securely (with https://). Some exporters use this to fill out the Website field of the published
app.

Colors
Background color

If the viewport does not cover the whole screen, e.g. when using letterbox mode, this is the
color of the bars that appear at the sides.
Splash color

When run as a web app, this is the background color of the splash screen which appears
when the web app is first launched.
Use theme color

Page 210 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Check to enable the Theme color property, allowing to override the default browser color
scheme.
Theme color

On some platforms, the theme color is used to tint the browser or OS color scheme, such as
the address bar, app caption, or status bar. If Use theme color is disabled the system defaults
will be used, otherwise the theme color will be applied instead.

Startup
First layout

Select which layout is the first to appear when the project is exported. When previewing in
the editor usually a specific layout is previewed, selecting Preview project will also preview
from this layout.
Use loader layout

Use First layout as a special layout which shows while the rest of the layout is loading. The
loadingprogress system expression returns the current progress from 0 to 1 (e.g. 0.5 for half
completed). For more information, see the tutorial how to make a custom loading screen.
Loader style Paid plans only

Change the default loader which is shown while the project is loading, or while the loader
layout is itself still loading. See the tutorial how to make a custom loading screen for more
information. The Free edition can only use the Construct 3 splash style. When using the
Progress bar & logo style, the icon with the Loading logo purpose is used as the logo. See
Icons & splash for more information.
Preload sounds

Whether to download and decode sounds before the project starts. If enabled, then sounds
will be downloaded while the loading bar is showing. If disabled then sounds will be
downloaded on-demand as the project runs, which can add a delay on the first time they are
played, but it also means there is less to download before the project can start. Note this
option does not preload music, which will still be streamed as the project runs.

Display
Viewport size

The size, in pixels, of the view area in a layout. A dashed line indicating the window size
appears in the Layout View. The viewport aspect ratio is also displayed underneath to help
you easily identify which aspect ratio your project is using.

Page 211 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Viewport fit

How to fit the viewport to the display on devices with non-rectangular screens (such as the
iPhone X). The viewport is rectangular, and the default Auto will add borders around the
screen to ensure the full viewport is visible. Using Cover will display the viewport covering the
entire physical screen, but this can result in parts of the viewport being hidden on nonrectangular screens, such as if there are notches or rounded corners.
Fullscreen mode

This determines how to fill the available window or screen space with the viewport. By
default it uses Letterbox scale, which stretches the viewport to fill all available space, using
black bars down the sides to preserve the aspect ratio. There are several variations; for more
information see the tutorial on supporting multiple screen sizes.
Fullscreen quality

This only applies when the viewport is being stretched (i.e. Fullscreen mode is not Off). High
quality mode renders at the full resolution of the displayed size. Low quality mode first
renders at the project viewport size, and then simply stretches the result to fill the screen.
Low quality mode often improves performance on low-end systems and is often suitable for
retro-style pixellated projects with Point sampling. However note that text, downscaled
sprites and effects will appear with better detail in high quality mode.
Orientations

Whether to lock the orientation on mobile devices. Any allows the display to switch between
portrait and landscape automatically; choosing either portrait or landscape will attempt to
lock the orientation to prevent it changing. This is applied when publishing an app, but for
web exports note that not all browsers or platforms support orientation locking or have
limitations on when it can apply. In some browsers it must be in fullscreen mode (using the
Browser object's Request fullscreen action) before orientation lock takes effect.
Sampling

Choose between nearest (pixellated), bilinear (smooth) and trilinear (smooth with better
quality downscaling) sampling when resizing images. Trilinear is recommended for modern
projects with hi-res graphics, and nearest is better suited to retro-style projects with blocky
pixel art. Bilinear can be faster than Trilinear on low-end devices if the improved downscaling
quality is not necessary.
Pixel rounding

By default objects can be drawn at sub-pixel positions, e.g. (100.3, 200.8). If Sampling is set
to Linear, this can make fine pixel art appear blurry. If Pixel rounding is enabled, objects round
their position to a whole number before drawing, e.g. (100, 201). This prevents any blurring,
and can also prevent "seams" appearing on grids of objects. Note this does not affect their
Page 212 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

actual X and Y co-ordinates, which can still be between pixels - it only affects where they are
drawn on the screen.
Z axis scale

Choose how the Z axis is measured, which affects 3D content like Z elevation and the 3D
Shape object. The options are:
Normalized (default): the default camera position is 100 units above the layout. However
this means the Z axis has a different scale to the X and Y axes. This mode is suitable for
2D content which uses simple 3D features like Z elevation.
Regular: the X, Y and Z axes all use the same scale. However this means the default
camera position on the Z axis varies depending on the other project properties. This
mode is more suitable for fully 3D content using the 3D Camera object.
The properties of the 3D Camera object reveal the Z axis scale and default camera Z
position, which can be useful to refer to when altering this property.
Field of view

This property only appears when the Z axis scale is set to Regular. It adjusts the viewing
angle of the 3D camera. Note this only affects perspective projections, as orthographic
projections do not use a viewing angle. Also note adjusting the field of view will also change
the default camera Z, as Construct adjusts it to ensure 2D content appears at 100% scale.

Advanced
Use worker

When enabled, the runtime is hosted in a Web Worker, off the main thread (where
supported). This makes it less likely the browser will interrupt the project (also known as
jank), generally improving performance. When disabled the runtime is hosted in the main
thread with full access to the DOM (Document Object Model), but in some cases can be
interrupted by the browser. Auto mode means Construct decides the mode automatically;
currently this enables it unless you use the scripting feature, in which case it disables it on
the assumption you will want to use DOM APIs. If your scripting code can run in a worker,
you can still enable worker mode by changing the setting to Yes.
You can check if the runtime is actually hosted in a Web Worker by checking the browser
console in preview mode. On startup it logs some technical details, which will include
either "Hosted in DOM" or "Hosted in worker", the latter indicating worker mode is in use.

Enable WebGPU

Whether to enable the WebGPU renderer for this project. If disabled, WebGPU is not
supported, or the project uses third-party effects that do not support WebGPU, then the
Page 213 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

WebGL renderer will be used instead. In most cases the WebGPU renderer should have
better performance than the WebGL renderer. The renderer in use can be identified by the
Platform Info Renderer expression. The Auto setting means Construct will use the default,
which is currently the WebGL renderer. Note the renderer used for the Construct editor (for
Layout Views) is separately controlled in the Settings dialog.
Enable multitexturing

This option only appears when WebGPU may be used (the Enable WebGPU property is not
No). Normally when the renderer changes texture it has to issue new rendering commands
which has a CPU overhead. Construct's WebGPU renderer supports multitexturing, which can
move most texture swapping to the GPU; however that usually adds some per-pixel
performance overhead that can affect fill rate. In other words, multi-texturing off will use
more CPU time and less GPU time, whereas multi-texturing on will use less CPU time and
more GPU time. The optimal setting depends on your project and whether it is bottlenecked
more on CPU or GPU performance. The default mode Auto enables multitexturing on
desktop devices as they tend to have more powerful GPUs, but disables it on mobile devices
as they tend to have less powerful GPUs where fill rate is more important.
Framerate mode

Adjust how the framerate is managed at runtime, providing a way to run at an uncapped
framerate for performance testing. The default is to tick and draw a new frame every time
the display hardware refreshes, which is the most efficient option and the only reasonable
one to use when publishing a project. Two other options are provided mainly for
performance testing purposes which allow the framerate to run as fast as possible. This
makes it easier to test the performance impact of changes to your project.
Note that Construct provides both frames per second (FPS) and ticks per second (TPS)
measurements, with FPS corresponding to rendered frames, and TPS corresponding to
the engine processing logic. These measurements can differ depending on the framerate
mode.
The options are:
V-synced will run ticks to match the display refresh rate, and render a frame every tick as
well. Note that if nothing changes then no frame may be rendered, in which case the
frames per second measurement may be lower than the ticks per second measurement.
Unlimited (ticks only) will run ticks as fast as possible, but still only draw a new frame
every time the display refreshes. This means the engine will measure a very high ticks
per second (TPS) rate, but it is still only visually producing frames at the normal rate
(typically 60 FPS). This option is suitable for CPU performance testing.

Page 214 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Unlimited (full frames) will run full frames as fast as possible, including issuing all the
draw calls to draw a new frame. Therefore the frames per second and ticks per second
will run at the same rate, although as with V-synced mode if nothing is changing then it
may skip rendering frames. When running faster than the display refresh rate, many
frames will not be seen, since they will be replaced by the next frame before the display
hardware refreshes. However it ensures that draw calls are included in any performance
measurement. This option is more suitable for testing rendering performance.
Do not publish a project using an unlimited framerate mode. It will drive the system
hardware to the maximum, including draining the battery faster, spinning fans faster and
louder, and raising the system temperature (possibly imposing thermal throttling). Many
users notice these effects and it can result in negative reviews. These options are
provided for performance testing during development; only V-synced mode should be
used when publishing.

GPU preference

On devices with multiple GPUs, the type of GPU to prefer. The most common multi-GPU case
is laptops that contain a weak low-power integrated GPU (designed to maximize battery life)
and a powerful discrete GPU (designed to maximize performance). This setting controls the
preferred GPU on such devices.
There is no guarantee this option will be used: it depends on the underlying platform
having support for selecting a specific GPU, and even if it does, it may ignore the request
in some circumstances (such as forcing the use of a low-power GPU if the system is
running on battery power). In other words this option is considered as a hint rather than
a requirement.

Downscaling quality

Adjusts the tradeoff between rendering quality and memory use when resizing images to
smaller than their original size (downscaling). The options are:
Low quality: mipmaps are disabled (reducing memory use), but downscaled sprites may
appear blocky or pixellated. This mode is not recommended for most projects, since
disabling mipmaps can reduce performance.
Medium quality: mipmaps are enabled. Downscaling sprites generally looks better.
High quality: mipmaps are enabled and the spritesheet after export pads out all images
to power-of-two sizes. This can significantly increase memory use, but can resolve two
minor rendering issues: light fringing that can sometimes occur along the borders of
downscaled objects, or a quality change in the last frame of an animation. Do not use
this mode unless a rendering artefact is specifically observed and selecting this mode
Page 215 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

can be observed to resolve it: the increased memory usage can be very significant, and is
not a cost that should be added for no reason. For more information see Memory usage.
Rendering mode

Whether to render the project in 2D or 3D mode. Normally Construct determines this
automatically with the Auto setting. However if you only use 3D features dynamically, such
as by altering 3D meshes at runtime, you may wish to opt in to 3D mode here. The options
are as follows:
2D: the project will render in 2D, without a depth buffer. Any 3D features, such as 3D
shape objects, will render incorrectly. This mode may be slightly faster than 3D mode for
2D content, but normally you don't need to choose it, as Auto mode will use it for 2D
projects anyway.
Auto: uses 3D mode if your project uses any 3D features, otherwise uses 2D mode.
3D: the project will render in 3D, with a depth buffer, which is necessary for correct
rendering of 3D features.
Anisotropic filtering

The anisotripic filtering mode to use for all images in the project. This improves the
appearance of surfaces at an oblique angle to the camera, such as the sides of 3D shape
objects. It also improves the quality of 2D objects that are resized to extreme aspect ratios.
Normally this can just be left at Auto. However in some cases this can affect performance,
so is customizable. The options are as follows:
Off: do not use anisotropic filtering. This can degrade the rendering quality of 3D and
some 2D features, but may slightly improve performance.
Auto: currently corresponds to 4x anisotropic filtering.
2x-16x: enable a specific level of anisotropic filtering. Higher levels improve quality
further but may have a slightly higher performance impact.
Near distance
Far distance

Set the distance of the near plane and far plane from the camera. Content closer to the
camera than the near plane, or further from the camera than the far plane, will not be visible.
This allows customizing the visible area when using a 3D Camera. It also controls the limits
of how far the view can zoom in or zoom out from a 2D game, as in Construct that is

Page 216 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

implemented by moving a camera closer and further from the game. These limitations in
zoom level will also be reflected in the Layout View's maximum and minimum zoom levels.
Max spritesheet size

The maximum spritesheet size in pixels Construct will use when grouping multiple images
on to the same sheet. This adjusts the tradeoff between memory usage and performance:
smaller sizes tend to reduce memory usage but can have reduced performance, whereas
larger sizes tend to increase memory usage but improve performance. The special option
Disabled will disable use of spritesheets completely, causing every single image used in the
project to be exported as a separate image file. This can have a significant negative impact
on the download size, loading time and runtime performance of the project, and in some
cases large projects may crash due to running in to system limits on the number of images
that can be loaded, so using some degree of spritesheeting is strongly recommended.
UID numbering

Sets how to allocate UIDs for newly created instances in the editor. The default mode
Increment will use the lowest available UID, which tends to assign incrementing numbers like
1, 2, 3, 4 etc. However this can cause problems when collaborating on projects with source
control, as it's possible two people could separately create new instances which get
assigned the same UID. The Random mode is designed to avoid such problems: all newly
created instances are assigned a random number with at least six digits, e.g. 129740,
652945, etc. This means there is a negligible chance that two people create new instances
with the same UID.

Compatibility settings
In general, settings in this group only exist for backwards compatibility, helping ensure existing
projects keep working the same while allowing new projects to switch to improved modes which
work slightly differently. Changing these settings is not normally recommended unless you
understand and are prepared to deal with the compatibility consequences.
Cordova iOS scheme
Cordova Android scheme

The URL scheme to use in mobile apps. Historically Cordova mobile apps ran on a file://
scheme, which was inefficient and had various issues. The modern approach is to run on
simpler and more efficient schemes: app:// on iOS and https:// on Android. (While iOS
and Android use different named schemes, in principle they work the same.)
Warning: since the app's storage is associated with the URL, changing this option will
cause all previous storage to be cleared.

Export file structure

Page 217 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set what kind of file structure is used when exporting the project. The default mode Folders
is recommended; the Flat option exists only for backwards-compatibility with older projects.
The options work as follows:
Flat (legacy, not recommended): all project files have their filenames lowercased and are
placed in the same folder as index.html, regardless of the use of subfolders in the Project
Bar.
Folders (modern, recommended): all project files preserve case on their filenames on
export, and are placed in subfolders matching the use of subfolders in the Project Bar.
The setting is also reflected in preview mode, so that preview works the same as the
exported project.
The option affects anywhere strings are used to refer to project files. For example playing an
audio file named mysound in a subfolder named myfolder by a string of its name only needs
to use the string "mysound" in flat mode; however in folders mode it must use
"myfolder/mysound", referring to the full folder path. Therefore changing this setting can
affect how the project works.

Editor
Preview effects

Whether or not to display effects and blend modes in the Layout View. If enabled, WebGL
must also be enabled for the effects to appear. If disabled, WebGL effects are not rendered in
the editor, and all objects are drawn as if they have the Normal blend mode.
Pause on unfocus

If enabled, the preview will pause when the browser window loses focus, e.g. when switching
back to work in Construct. This can be useful for certain workflows, or to prevent the project
distracting you as you work. If disabled the preview will continue to run even without focus,
but note switching to another browser tab or minimising the preview window will still pause
(as it does with published projects).
Bundle addons Paid plans only

If enabled, all third-party addons that the project uses will be bundled with the project file
when saved. This allows the project to be opened anywhere, such as on another system
where the addons have not been pre-installed. This makes it more convenient to move
projects using third-party addons between different devices. Note that addons can opt out of
bundling; you will be notified when enabling this option if any addons cannot be bundled with
the project. Bundled addons always use the version of the addon that was installed when

Page 218 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

they are saved. They can however be updated if the installed addon is a newer version via the
View used addons dialog.

Page 219 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

LAYOUTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/layouts

A layout is a pre-arranged set of objects. It can represent a game level, menu or title screen, or a
scene in an animation. In other tools layouts may be referred to as scenes, rooms, frames or
stages. They can be added, renamed and deleted from the Project Bar. Layouts are edited with
the Layout View. Every layout has an associated event sheet which defines how the layout
works.
Layouts contain a stack of layers. A layout must have at least one layer. Objects that appear on
the screen do not belong directly to a layout - they belong to one of the layers in the layout.
Layouts do not have a background color. To set a background color, make the bottom layer
opaque and set its background color. This can be done in the Layers Bar.
Layouts can also have effects applied, which affects all content appearing in the display.

Adding and removing layouts
To add a layout, right-click a layout folder (such as the root level Layouts) in the Project Bar and
select Add layout.
To rename or remove a layout, right-click the layout itself in the Project Bar and select Rename
or Delete.

Layout properties
The properties for a layout can be edited in the Properties Bar after clicking a space in the layout
or selecting the name of the layout in the Project Bar.
Name

The name of this layout.
Event sheet

The associated event sheet that defines how this layout works. Event sheets can be shared
between layouts using includes if you have a lot of similar events between layouts.
Size

The size, in pixels, of the layout area. If Unbounded scrolling is enabled, this still affects how
much of the layout area is shown in the Layout View.

Page 220 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Unbounded scrolling

By default the game window cannot scroll past the edges of the layout. Enable this to allow
unlimited scrolling in any direction, even past the edges of the layout.
Projection

Set the projection used for rendering 3D features. The default Perspective projection means
things get smaller as they get further away. The Orthographic projection instead keeps
everything the same size, regardless of its distance from the camera, creating a flat
appearance. For an interactive example of both projections, see the Orthographic projection
example.
Vanishing point

When using 3D features such as Z elevation and the 3D shape object with perspective, this
specifies where the vanishing point is relative to the viewport area. (This setting does not
apply with an orthographic projection, as there is no perspective.) The default is 50%, 50%
meaning the middle of the viewport. Consequently as things move in to the distance, they
will also move towards the middle of the screen. Altering this will adjust the perspective such
that objects moving in to the distance move to a vanishing point elsewhere on the screen.
For example setting the vanishing point to 0%, 0% moves the vanishing point to the top-left
corner of the screen. This can be used to adapt the 3D perspective to the style of your
project. To learn more see the tutorial Using 3D in Construct.
Effects

Add and edit effects that apply to the whole layout.

Editor properties
These properties only affect how the layout works in the editor, and don't change how it works at
runtime.
Margins

The size in pixels of extra padding space around the actual layout area that you can scroll
around in. Some padding is often useful for conveniently editing the edges of the layout area.
Show grid

Whether to display a grid in the Layout View.
Snap to grid

Whether to snap all object placements and sizes to the grid in the Layout View.

Page 221 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Grid size

The size of the grid in pixels. This is only used if Show grid or Snap to grid is enabled.
Grid offset

By default the grid is aligned with the top and left edge of the layout area. Adding an offset
shifts the grid horizontally or vertically so it is offset from the edges of the layout.
Show collision polygons

Display outlines of object's collision polygons in the Layout View. This can help arrange
objects with regards to how they collide, rather than just how they appear.
Show meshes

Display outlines of object's meshes in the Layout View, if a mesh has been created. See
Editing meshes in the Layout View manual entry for more details.
Show translucent inactive layers

Enable to display all layers other than the active layer at a reduced opacity. This can help
identify the content on the active layer.
Show hierarchy

Display arrows over scene graph hierarchies pointing from parents to children. See Setting up
a hierarchy in the Layout View manual entry for more details.
Project properties

A shortcut to view the project's properties.

Page 222 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

LAYERS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/layers

A layer is like a transparent sheet of glass that objects are painted on to. Layers can be used to
show different groups of objects in front or behind each other, like the foreground and
background. Layers belong to a layout and can be added, edited and removed in the Layers Bar.
Layers can be scrolled at different rates for parallax effects, and also individually scaled and
rotated, which makes them a powerful way to make interesting visual effects.
Layers are also important to add non-scrolling content (e.g. HUDs or UIs) to scrolling projects. A
layer with its parallax set to 0, 0 will not scroll at all, so any objects placed on this layer will
always stay in the same place on-screen. Note that in this case, objects should be placed within
the dashed rectangle that appears in the top-left of the Layout View.
A common arrangement for layers might be:
HUD (top layer - health bar, UI info etc.)
Foreground (objects appearing on top, e.g. explosions and effects)
Middleground (main game objects such as the player and enemies)
Background (bottom layer - the background)
Note that the Free edition is limited to using two layers only.
Layers can also have effects applied, which affects all content appearing on the layer.

Sub-layers
Layers can also be added as sub-layers of another layer. Sub-layers appear indented in the
Layers Bar to show they come under another layer.
A layer with both objects and sub-layers will show its objects on top of its sub-layers. In other
words, sub-layers come beneath a layer's own objects in the Z order. This also means that sublayers act a lot like a simple flat list of layers, and so can be used solely for organizing long layer
lists, much like layer folders.
However adding an effect to a layer with sub-layers allows for more efficient and more advanced
effects. An effect on a layer with sub-layers will alter the appearance of both the layer and all its
sub-layers. This is more efficient than adding the same effect to multiple layers, as it ensures the
effect is only processed a single time, while affecting the content of multiple layers.
Layer effects involving sub-layers also allow for composition of more advanced effects. For
example a group of layers can be combined to make a single lighting layer, which then affects

Page 223 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

the appearance of another group of layers beneath it. See the Shadows: blending multiple lights
example for a demonstration of this technique.

Global layers
Sometimes many layouts in a project have the same content on a particular layer, such as for
interface or HUD overlaid on to the project. Changing this content then becomes a chore since
changes must be repeated on every layout. Global layers are aimed at solving this problem.
If a layer's Global property is enabled, then every layer in the project with the same name is
overridden by that layer. The initial objects, as well as its properties, are used instead of the other
layer's own content and properties. Then changes can be made once to the original global layer,
and the changes will be applied project-wide.
The layer with the Global property enabled is the "master" layer. On other layers in the project
with the same name, the Global property will be read-only and display Overridden to indicate it is
being substituted by a different layer. The same layer's content will appear in the editor, and all
edits will affect the master layer, no matter which layout it is being edited from.
Whether a layer is the original global layer or is overridden will be shown next to a layer's name in
between parenthesis in all relevant places, these includes the Layers dropdown in the Properties
bar when an instance is selected and next to each item of the Layers Bar.

Layer properties
The properties for a layer can be edited in the Properties Bar after clicking the layer in the Layers
Bar. Note this also changes the active layer.
Name

The name of the layer, which can be used to refer to the layer in the event system.
Initially visible

Whether or not the layer is initially visible when previewing. This is different to the Visible in
editor property which only affects the Layout View.
Initially interactive

Whether or not the layer is initially interactive when previewing. If disabled, then the content
of the layer will not respond to mouse or touch input.
HTML elements layer

Allow HTML elements to appear above this layer. This allows content on other layers above
this layer to render on top of HTML elements on this layer. Layers which enable this are
shown with a special icon in the Layers Bar. For more details see HTML layers.

Page 224 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Use render cells

Optimise the rendering of this layer for extremely large layouts with a large number of static
objects spread out across this layer. This is not normally necessary except for certain types
of large projects. If this is used incorrectly, it can actually make rendering less efficient, so
make sure you can measure a performance improvement before using it. For more
information, see the blog post How render cells work.
Scale rate

Change the rate at which the layer zooms if scaling is applied to the layer or layout, a bit like
parallax but for zoom. A scale rate of 0 means the layer will always stay at 100% scale
regardless of the scaling applied. A scale rate of 100 means it will scale normally.
Parallax

Change the rate at which the layer scrolls in the horizontal and vertical directions. A parallax
rate of 100% x 100% means ordinary scrolling, 0% x 0% means it will never scroll (useful for
UIs), 50% x 50% means scrolling half as fast, etc. Also useful for multi-layer parallaxing
backgrounds.
Z elevation

The Z elevation of the entire layer. By default the camera is at Z = 100, and looking down to Z
= 0. The default Z elevation is 0. Increasing it will move the layer upwards (towards the
camera) and decreasing it will move it downwards (away from the camera). You can learn
more about Z elevation in the tutorial Using 3D features in Construct.
Transparent

Make the layer have a transparent background. If enabled, the background color is not used.
Background color

The background color for the layer, if it is opaque (i.e. Transparent is disabled).
Opacity

Set the opacity (or semitransparency) of the layer, from 0% (invisible) to 100% (opaque).
Force own texture

Force the layer to always render to an intermediate texture rather than directly to the screen.
This is useful for some kinds of effects. However it slows down rendering, so it should be
disabled unless specifically needed.
Uses own texture

Page 225 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
Uses own texture

A read-only property indicating if the layer renders to an intermediate texture. This has a
performance overhead. The Force own texture setting enables this, but some other
properties also cause the layer to use its own texture, including changing the layer opacity
from 100%, changing the blend mode, or adding effects.
Rendering mode

When using 3D rendering mode, this setting can change a layer back in to rendering in 2D
mode. This allows projects with 3D content to still use 2D layers as backdrops or overlays
which are not affected by depth. For example a HUD layer ought to display on top of all 3D
content, regardless of depth, so would typically use a 2D rendering mode for the layer.
Otherwise in 3D mode, 3D features may still overlap the layer content if they rise higher than
the layer contents. For an example, see Combining 2D & 3D layers, and you can learn more
about 3D features and 2D layers in the tutorial Using 3D features in Construct.
This property only appears for projects using 3D rendering mode. See the Rendering
mode project property.

Draw order

This setting only appears for layers using a 3D rendering mode. The default draw order is Z
order, meaning objects are drawn in a back-to-front order according to the Z order of
instances on the layer. 3D layers can also be set to Camera distance draw order, which
instead ignores the Z order and draws instances on the layer according to how far away from
the camera they are, from furthest away to nearest. This has no effect on opaque objects,
but is important for rendering transparency in 3D. For more information see the tutorial
Using 3D in Construct.
Blend mode

Change the way the layer is blended with the background when it is rendered to the display.
See the Blend modes example that comes with Construct 3 for a visual demonstration of
each.
Effects

Add and edit effects that apply to the whole layer.
Visible in editor

Whether or not the layer is showing in the Layout View. Note this is different to the Initially
visible property which only affects previewing. This setting can also be accessed via the
Layers Bar.
Locked

Page 226 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Whether or not the layer is locked in the Layout View. Objects on locked layers cannot be
selected. This setting can also be accessed via the Layers Bar.
Parallax in editor

If enabled, the Parallax property will also be applied in the Layout View, allowing you to
preview what the effect will look like.
Global

See the section above on Global layers. If enabled it will override every other layer in the
project with the same name with its own contents and properties. Overridden layers display
this property read-only as Overridden. If disabled its contents and properties are unique to
itself.

Page 227 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

OBJECTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/objects

In Construct objects perform most of the useful work in a project. Most of the things you see in
a Construct project are represented by objects, and there are also hidden objects for other
purposes (e.g. audio playback).
When inserting a new object, typically you first choose the plugin in the dialog (e.g. Sprite). This
then creates an object type (e.g. TrollEnemy). When the mouse turns to a crosshair this allows
you to place the first instance, and you can duplicate the instance to create more of them.
Understanding the differences between them is essential to use Construct effectively, especially
object types and instances. The rest of this manual section goes in to each aspect of objects in
more detail.

Page 228 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PLUGINS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/objects/plugins

Plugins define a kind of object. For example, a Sprite is a kind of object, and the Audio object is a
different kind. These are defined by the Sprite plugin and Audio plugin respectively. See the plugin
reference for more information on individual plugins.
JavaScript developers can make new plugins (and behaviors) using the Addon SDK. See also
Third-party addons for information about installing addons.
Most plugins define their own properties in the Properties Bar. To see a full list, locate the plugin
in the reference section.
There are three main kinds of plugins:
1

Visual plugins (e.g. Sprite) appear in the layout and draw something to the screen.

2

Hidden plugins (e.g. Array) are placed in a particular layout, but do not draw anything to the
screen.

3

Project-wide plugins (e.g. Mouse, Audio) are added to the entire project, and can only be added
once. There cannot be more than one object type or instance of a project-wide plugin. They
simply enable a new capability (such as being able to take mouse input) to events.

Construct is designed modularly. That means not much functionality is built in: you must insert a
plugin before you can use the related features. For example, you cannot play back any audio
before adding the Audio plugin to a project. This might seem unnecessary, but there are many
project-wide plugins and it is unlikely every project will need to use all of them. For example, if
the Audio plugin was automatically included with every project, even projects which do not need
Audio support would end up burdened with its features and code. So remember if you do not
add a plugin, it is not at all included in your project, and this helps your projects remain lean and
efficient when exported.

Page 229 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

OBJECT TYPES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/objects/object-types

Object types are a central part of game design in Construct. Object types define a 'class' of an
object. For example, TrollEnemy and OgreEnemy could be different object types of the Sprite
plugin. They have different animations and events can be applied separately to make them look
and act differently, despite the fact they are both Sprite objects.
There can be multiple instances of an object type in a project. For example, you may wish for
there to be four TrollEnemy objects awaiting the player in a game. These four instances share
the same animations, images, behaviors, instance variables and events. (In the case of instance
variables, each instance stores its own unique value, e.g. for health, and behaviors work
independently for each instance too.)
Object types do not themselves have a position, angle or size. These are properties of the
instances of the object type. The Project Bar displays the object types in the project, but not the
instances. You can also add, rename and delete object types from the Project Bar.
Events are made to apply to an object type. The event then filters the instances that meet the
condition. For example, the event "Bullet collides with Alien" is an event that applies to all
instances of the Bullet and Alien object types. However, when the event runs, the actions only
apply to the specific instances involved in the collision. For more information see How events
work.
Object types can also be grouped together in to Families Paid plans only. This can help avoiding
repeating the same events for different object types.

Page 230 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

OBJECT INSTANCES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/objects/instances

Object instances are the actual objects you see in a game: an instance of an object type. For
example, if there are four TrollEnemys in a layout, those are four instances of the TrollEnemy
object type.
It is instances which have a position, angle and size in the layout. Object types do not have these
properties - they simply define a 'class' of object.
Instances can be created at runtime in events (typically by the System Create object action and
the Sprite Spawn an object action). They can also be pre-arranged in layouts with the Layout
View to design levels, menus and title screens. Instances can also be individually animated in
timelines.
Selecting an instance in the Layout View shows its properties in the Properties Bar. These are a
mix of properties in common with all (or most) objects, and plugin-specific properties. The
common properties are described below, and plugin-specific properties are described for each
plugin in the reference section.

Common instance properties
The following properties are common to most objects, depending on their capabilities.
Name

The name of the associated object type.
Global

By default, all instances are destroyed when the layout ends (e.g. when going to the next
layout). If enabled, none of the instances of this object type will be destroyed when switching
layouts.
Plugin Read-only

A reminder of the plugin this object is based on.
Position

The X and Y co-ordinates in the layout in pixels. This is measured to the object's origin. This
can also be altered by moving the instance in the Layout View.

Page 231 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Size

The width and height of the instance in pixels. This can also be altered by dragging the resize
handles in the Layout View.
Angle

The angle in degrees the instance is oriented at. This can also be altered by rotating the
object in the Layout View by clicking and dragging just outside the resize handles.
Opacity

The instance opacity (or semitransparency), from 0% (transparent) to 100% (opaque).
Color

A color tint to apply to the instance. This works by normalizing each color component in the
0-1 range, and multiplying it with the object's color. This means a white color (with 1 for each
color component) displays the original color of the object. Choosing another color will tint
the object, e.g. choosing red will preserve only the red color component of the object's
image.
Layer

The layer the instance is placed on. In the case the selected instance is from from a global
layer in a different layout to the one currently active, the dropdown will show first the layers
of the layout the instance is really coming from, followed by the layers of the layout which is
currently active.
Z elevation

The instance's elevation on the Z axis. By default the camera is at Z = 100, and looking down
to Z = 0. The default Z elevation is 0. Increasing it will move it upwards (towards the camera)
and decreasing it will move it downwards (away from the camera).
Z elevation only affects the appearance of the object. It does not affect collisions everything else continues to work in 2D as if its Z elevation was still 0.

Z elevation takes precedence over Z order. In other words, using Send to top of layer will
not make an object appear on top of an object that has a higher Z elevation.

Z index Read-only

Page 232 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Indicates the zero-based Z index of the instance on its layer relative to all the other instances
on the layer. A value of 0 means it is the bottom instance, and increasing values mean it is
closer to the top of the layer. The Z index can be modified using the Z Order Bar Paid plans
only.
UID Read-only

Every instance in the project has a unique number assigned, called its unique ID or UID. This
value is displayed in the editor so you can view the UID for specific instances. You can use
conditions like Pick by unique ID in events to pick specific instances by their UID.
Tags

A space separated list of string tags to identify an instance. The first tag of an instance is
used in some places in the editor to better distinguish specific instances. There are
associated common ACEs and a scripting interface to work with tags.
Edit variables

Open the Object Instance Variables dialog.
Edit behaviors

Open the Object Behaviors dialog.
Edit effects

Open the Effects dialog.
Container

Group a set of object types together so they create, destroy and pick in events together. See
the dedicated section on Containers for more information.
Template

A set of properties for managing templates, which allow conveniently updating properties of
instances across the entire project. See the dedicated section on Templates for more
information.
Visible in editor

An editor-only property, determines if the instance is visible or not. Can also be set through
the Instances Bar.
Locked

Page 233 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

An editor-only property, determines if the instance can be interacted with. Can also be
controlled through the Instances Bar.

Index IDs (IIDs)
As well as unique IDs (UIDs, described above), all instances are also assigned an Index ID (IID).
This is the zero-based index of the instance within its own object type. The first instance created
for each object type is assigned an IID of 0, and subsequent instances are assigned
incrementing numbers. Unlike UIDs, IIDs can change: if an instance is destroyed, all the object
type's instance's IIDs are reassigned so they are continuous (i.e. 0, 1, 2, 3... N with no gaps).
Therefore an IID does not persistently refer to one instance - use UIDs for that purpose. However
IIDs can be useful for advanced users taking advantage of object expression indexing, the Pick
Nth instance system condition, or the IID expression.

Page 234 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

INSTANCE VARIABLES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/objects/instance-variables

Instance Variables are added to object types but store numbers, text or booleans (on/off flags)
individually for each instance. This makes them ideal for things like health counters in a game,
since each instance tracks its own value. Instance variables are added to object types with the
Object Instance Variables dialog, and the initial values for each instance can be set from the
Properties Bar.
Click here to open an example of instance variables.
Instance variables can also be used to help control instances independently of each other. For
example, a Boolean instance variable could be used to determine if an enemy is hunting down
the player (true) or running away (false). If instances all have different values, the condition Is
boolean instance variable set can be used to apply actions to enemies hunting down the player.
Inverting the condition (picking instances with the value being false) can then be used to apply
actions to enemies running away. The end result is a number of instances of the same object
type acting independently: some chasing and others running away. This is a simple example much more complex methods can be made using multiple instance variables. In other words, an
instance's state can be controlled using instance variables.
Instance variables can also be added to Families Paid plans only. All the object types in the
family then inherit the instance variable.

Autocompleting string instance variables
When using string instance variables, Construct will offer to autocomplete the instance variable
with other strings it is referenced with in both event sheets and properties. The autocomplete
options will appear in both the Parameters Dialog (after typing the first " character) and the
Properties Bar.
This is useful for string instance variables that represent a fixed set of states, such as "idle",
"searching" and "attacking". If your event sheets or properties reference a set of strings like this,
then they will be offered for autocomplete in properties and parameters, helping show the list of
available strings and avoiding typos from re-entering the values.

Page 235 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

BEHAVIORS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/objects/behaviors

Behaviors add extra capabilities to object types. They can be added with the Object Behaviors
dialog. See the behavior reference section for more information on individual behaviors.
An example of a behavior is the 8 direction behavior. This instantly allows an object to be moved
around with the arrow keys. This helps speed up development and increase productivity.
Behaviors are not intended to do everything in your game for you: the events are where the
majority of your game logic will be defined. Behaviors are essentially time-savers and shortcuts.
Most behaviors can be replicated with events, but it simply is far more time consuming to do so.
Behaviors are very customisable, but if a behavior isn't doing quite what you want it to, you can
usually resort to reproducing it in a customised way with events.
All instances of an object type use its behaviors. You cannot add a behavior to only some of the
instances - they all use the behavior - although you may be able to enable or disable the behavior
for individual instances.
Some behaviors add their own properties to the Properties Bar. See the behavior reference for
each behavior's properties
Some behaviors also extend the objects they are added to with their own conditions, actions and
expressions. These are shown alongside the object's own conditions, actions and expressions in
the Add Condition or Action dialog and Expressions dictionary.
Behaviors can also be added to Families Paid plans only. All the object types in the family then
inherit the behavior.

Page 236 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
