# Manual Construct 3  Parte 18 (líneas 2040121600)

## Resumen
- Picker tag/platform Description/path (línea 12)
- Windows (línea 15)
- macOS (línea 17)
- Not supported (línea 18)
- Linux (línea 19)
- Not supported (línea 20)
- Windows (línea 23)
- macOS (línea 25)
- Not supported (línea 26)
- Linux (línea 27)
- Not supported (línea 28)
- Windows (línea 31)
- macOS (línea 33)
- Linux (línea 35)
- File system conditions (línea 38)
- Desktop features supported (línea 39)
- Detect whether desktop-specific features of this plugin are available. This is only the case (línea 41)
- when running after using a supported desktop export option. When true, the known folder (línea 42)
- condition to check), as well as the desktop-specific actions like Run file and Shell open. (línea 44)
- Has picker tag (línea 45)

## Contenido


Page 602 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Picker tag/platform Description/path
<saved-games>
User's folder for games to save their current progress to.
Windows
C:\Users\username\Saved Games
macOS
Not supported
Linux
Not supported
<screenshots>
User's folder for games and applications to save screenshots to. Note this may be a subfolder to the pictures folder.
Windows
C:\Users\username\Pictures\Screenshots
macOS
Not supported
Linux
Not supported
<videos>
User's folder for games and applications to save recorded videos to.
Windows
C:\Users\username\Videos
macOS
/Users/username/Movies
Linux
/home/username/Videos

File system conditions
Desktop features supported

Detect whether desktop-specific features of this plugin are available. This is only the case
when running after using a supported desktop export option. When true, the known folder
pickers like "<documents>" can be used (providing they are available - use the Has picker tag
condition to check), as well as the desktop-specific actions like Run file and Shell open.
Has picker tag

True if a given picker tag has been remembered from a previous session. In this case the
picker tag can still be referred to for file system operations, such as to read a previously
chosen file, without having to show a picker again.
On picker complete
On picker error

Triggered after the Show folder picker, Show open file picker or Show save file picker actions
with a matching picker tag, depending on the result of the picker. A picker is completed when
the user successfully chooses a file or folder and access is then granted to the selection.
Cancelling a picker, or otherwise being unable to show a picker (e.g. due to not being in a
user input trigger), will trigger On picker error.
Is supported

True if file system features are supported. This depends on support for the File System
Access API in the browser. If false then none of the features of the plugin will work.
On file operation complete
On file operation error

Triggered after any file or folder operation such as reading a file or creating a folder, with a
matching file tag completes/fails.
On any file operation complete

Page 603 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
On any file operation complete
On any file operation error

Triggered after any file or folder operation such as reading a file or creating a folder
completes/fails, regardless of its file tag. The associated file tag can be retrieved with the
FileTag expression.
Has file/folder

Use this after the List content action to check whether a given file or folder exists in the
returned list of files and folders. Note that this checks for the specified type of item - so for
example if checking whether a folder exists, and the given name does exist but is actually a
file, then the condition will be false. You must choose whether to check for the file name
case-sensitively; note that typically on Windows and macOS file names are not case
sensitive, but on Linux they are.

File system actions
Add accept type

Add a file type to be shown in the next open file or save file picker. By default the pickers will
show all kinds of files; adding an accept type defaults to filtering by those kinds of files, and
adding multiple accept types allows the user to switch between different filters. The accept
type must specify a MIME type, such as "text/plain" for text files or "image/png" for PNG
images. A list of file extensions can also be provided in case they cannot be deduced from
the MIME type. These must begin with a dot and multiple file extensions can be specified
separated by semicolons, e.g. ".png;.jpg" indicates to allow both .png and .jpg file extensions.
A description can also be provided which may be shown in the picker. When the next picker
is shown, the list of added accept types is cleared and must be added again for another
picker; typically you should use this action immediately prior to showing a picker.
Show folder picker

Show a folder picker allowing the user to choose a folder on their local system. The Picker
tag identifies the chosen folder if it is completed successfully. The Mode determines what
kind of permission prompt the user is shown.
Files can be written to a read-only folder, but the browser will show another permission
prompt. Obtaining read & write permission initially will avoid later permission prompts.
The Picker ID is an optional extra identifier for remembering the picker settings, such as the
last viewed folder. The Start in setting allows choosing a default system folder to show as
the initial selection of the folder picker, but is overridden by any remembered settings from
the same Picker ID.
Show open file picker

Page 604 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Show an open file picker allowing the user to choose one or multiple files on their local
system to open. The Picker tag identifies the chosen file or files if it is completed
successfully, and grants read access. (The files can later be written to, but the browser will
show another permission prompt.) Show accept all sets whether to show an accept type that
shows all kinds of files; if disabled then the Add accept type action must be used beforehand.
Multiple can be enabled to allow the user to select multiple files in the open file picker.
When opening multiple files, the selection is treated like an empty folder with just the
chosen files in it. The FileCount and FileNameAt expressions will return the list of chosen
files, and these names can be used in the Folder path parameter when reading or writing
files.
The Picker ID is an optional extra identifier for remembering the picker settings, such as the
last viewed folder. The Start in setting allows choosing a default system folder to show as
the initial selection of the folder picker, but is overridden by any remembered settings from
the same Picker ID.
Show save file picker

Show a save file picker allowing the user to choose a file on their local system to save to. The
Picker tag identifies the chosen file if it is completed successfully, and grants write access.
Note that the chosen file is erased, so cannot be read from. It is expected that the file
contents will only be written to.
Show accept all sets whether to show an accept type that shows all kinds of files; if disabled
then the Add accept type action must be used beforehand. The Suggested name is used as
the initial filename choice to save to in the picker. The Picker ID is an optional extra identifier
for remembering the picker settings, such as the last viewed folder. The Start in setting
allows choosing a default system folder to show as the initial selection of the folder picker,
but is overridden by any remembered settings from the same Picker ID.
Read text file
Read binary file

Read the contents of a file from a previously completed picker. The file or folder to read from
is identified by the Picker tag. The Folder path is optional and is only used for folder pickers
or from a open picker with Multiple enabled, and specifies the filename to be read, e.g.
"file1.txt" or "subfolder/file2.txt" when using a folder picker. When using a save file picker or
an open file picker for a single file, leave the Folder path empty as it is not used, as it will read
the single file chosen by the picker. The File tag is optional and allows identifying when the
read operation completes or fails with the On file operation complete/error triggers. In the
case of reading a text file, the FileText expression is set to the read text content when
completed. In the case of reading a binary file, the read file contents will be placed in the
chosen Binary Data object when completed.

Page 605 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Write text file
Write binary file

Write text or binary data to a file from a previously completed picker. The file or folder to
write to is identified by the Picker tag. The Folder path is optional and is only used for folder
pickers or from a open picker with Multiple enabled, and specifies the filename to be written
to, e.g. "file1.txt" or "subfolder/file2.txt" when using a folder picker. When using a save file
picker or an open file picker for a single file, leave the Folder path empty as it is not used, as it
will write to the single file chosen by the picker. The File tag is optional and allows identifying
when the write operation completes or fails with the On file operation complete/error triggers.
In the case of writing a text file, the given Text will be written to the file, and the text content
can optionally be appended to the end of the existing file.
Note that save file pickers erase the chosen file, so appending is only useful after using
an open file picker.
In the case of writing a binary file, the contents of the chosen Binary Data will be written to
the file.
Copy file

Only applies to folder pickers. Copy a file within a previously picked folder. The Source path
specifies an existing file to copy, e.g. "subfolder/file1.txt". The Destination path specifies
where to create a copy; this will either create a new file if it doesn't exist, or overwrite an
existing file if it already exists. The File tag is optional and allows identifying when the copy
operation completes or fails with the On file operation complete/error triggers.
Create folder

Only applies to folder pickers. Create a subfolder within a previously picked folder. The Folder
path specifies the folder to create. This can refer to multiple subfolders which will all be
created, e.g. "subfolder/otherfolder". The File tag is optional and allows identifying when the
folder creation operation completes or fails with the On file operation complete/error triggers.
Delete

Only applies to folder pickers. Delete a file or folder within a previously picked folder. The
Folder path specifies the file or folder to delete, e.g. "subfolder/file1.txt" or "subfolder". The
Recursive option applies only when Folder path identifies a folder: if enabled it will delete all
files and folders within the identified folder as well as the folder itself, but if disabled it will
only successfully delete the folder if it is already empty. The File tag is optional and allows
identifying when the delete operation completes or fails with the On file operation
complete/error triggers.
List content

Page 606 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Only applies to folder pickers. Retrieves a list of all files and folders within a previously picked
folder. The Folder path identifies a subfolder to list the contents for, or can be left empty to
list the contents of the originally picked folder. Enabling Recursive will also list all files and
folders through subfolders of the specified folder.
Recursive listing may be slow with a very large folder that contains thousands of
files/subfolders.
The File tag is optional and allows identifying when the listing operation completes or fails
with the On file operation complete/error triggers. Once completed, the available files and
folders can be accessed with the FileCount, FileNameAt, FolderCount and FolderNameAt
expressions. When Recursive was enabled, the listed file and folder names may include
slashes, such as subfolder/file.txt; for cross-platform consistency these always use forwards
slashes, even on Windows.
Run file

Only supported in desktop exports when the Desktop features available condition is true. This
action attempts to execute the provided file path. Command-line arguments can also be
optionally provided. This can be used to run another program. Uniquely for this action the
folder picker parameter can be left empty, in which case the provided file path is run directly;
this can be useful to run system executables like "cmd.exe" on Windows.
Shell open

Only supported in desktop exports when the Desktop features available condition is true. This
action requests that the operating system shell (the component that handles the system
user interface) opens the specified file. Typically this launches the default app associated
with the file type and then opens the file in it, similar to double-clicking the file in the system
file explorer.

File system expressions
FileCount
FileNameAt(index)

Retrieve the number and filenames of available files. This can be used after a save file picker
to identify the chosen saved filename (which is just one file), after an open file picker to
identify the available filenames (which can be multiple filenames if the Multiple option was
enabled, otherwise it is just one file), or after the List content action for listing the contents of
a folder. If the List content action Recursive option was enabled, file and folder names may
include slashes, such as subfolder/file.txt; for cross-platform consistency these always use
forwards slashes, even on Windows.
FolderCount

Page 607 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FolderNameAt(index)

Retrieve the number and names of available subfolders after the List content action for
listing the contents of a folder. If the List content action Recursive option was enabled, file
and folder names may include slashes, such as subfolder/file.txt; for cross-platform
consistency these always use forwards slashes, even on Windows.
FileText

After a Read text file action completes successfully, the contents of the read file.
Note that this is replaced when the next Read text file action completes, so it is best to
use it immediately after reading a file.

FileTag

In a file system operation trigger such as On any file operation complete, this returns the file
tag of the associated file operation.
FolderPath

In a file system operation trigger working within a folder, this returns the folder path of the
associated file operation.
PickerTag

In a trigger, this returns the picker tag associated with the picker or file system operation.

Page 608 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FLOWCHART CONTROLLER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/flowchartcontroller

The Flowchart Controller plugin allows flowcharts to be controlled in event sheets.
Some of the common uses of the plugin include the following:
Create instances of flowcharts using the Start flowchart or Start flowchart (by name)
actions.
Use the Set flowchart action to set an existing flowchart instance as the current one,
affecting which flowchart other actions, conditions and expressions act upon.
Use the Go to actions to traverse a flowchart.
Use the Node entered and Node exited triggers to perform other project-specific actions
depending on the current state of a flowchart.
Query information from the current node of the current flowchart using expressions.

Flowchart instances
Use the Start flowchart action to create an instance of a flowchart. This is essentially the current
state of a flowchart, including the current node. Sometimes only one instance of a flowchart is
necessary, which is simpler to use. However it is possible to create multiple instances of the
same flowchart, and have each instance track its current node separately. This allows for more
advanced uses, such as having every instance of a Sprite object have its own flowchart instance
and be able to proceed through the flowchart independently, rather than sharing one flowchart
state for all Sprite objects.
The End flowchart action is the counterpart of Start flowchart, and destroys a flowchart instance
so it no longer consumes memory.
Look for the Flowcharts and Containers example for a quick look at how to combine
Flowcharts with Containers to give individual instances their own flowchart instance.

Flowchart Controller Conditions
On any flowchart entered

Triggered when any flowchart is entered. This will happen after using the Set Flowchart
action or after using one of the actions to start a new flowchart and using the parameter to
immediately set it as the current one.

Page 609 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On any node entered

Triggered when any node is entered in the current flowchart.
On tagged node entered

Triggered when a node with the specified tags is entered in the current flowchart. All the
passed tags must match for the condition to be fulfilled.
On any node entered in flowchart

Triggered when any node is entered in a flowchart with the specified tag.
On tagged node entered in flowchart

Triggered when a node with the specified tags is entered in a flowchart with the specified
tag. All the passed node tags must match for the condition to be fulfilled.
On any flowchart exited

Triggered when any flowchart is exited.
On any node exited

Triggered when any node in the current flowchart is exited.
On tagged node exited

Triggered when a node with the specified tags in the current flowchart is exited. All the
passed tags must match for the condition to be fulfilled.
On any node exited in flowchart

Triggered when any node in the specified flowchart is exited.
On tagged node exited in flowchart

Triggered when a node with the specified tags in the specified flowchart is exited. All the
passed node tags must match for the condition to be fulfilled.
Is at start node

Check if the current flowchart is at the start node.
Is at start node in flowchart

Check if the specified flowchart is at the start node.

Page 610 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Has flowchart

Check if a flowchart with the specified tag was already created by either Start flowchart or
Start flowchart (by name).
Note this is false if the flowchart was already released by End flowchart or End
flowchart by tag actions.

Compare output count

Compare the output count of the current node in the current flowchart.
Compare output name

Compare the output name in the current node of the current flowchart, using an index to
choose the output.
Compare default output name

Compare the output name in the current node of the current flowchart, checking against the
default output. Only works if a default output has been set.
Compare output value

Compare the output value in the current node of the current flowchart, using an index or
name to choose the output.
Compare default output value

Compare the output value in the current node of the current flowchart, checking against the
default output. Only works if a default output has been set.
Compare node tags

Compare the tags of the current node in the current flowchart. In the case of passing
multiple tags as a space separated string, the current node must contain all the passed tags
for the condition to be fulfilled.
Compare node tag count

Compare the tag count of the current node in the current flowchart.
Compare flowchart tag

Compare the tag of the current flowchart.
Page 611 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Has output

Check if the current node of the current flowchart has an output, using an index or a name to
choose the output.
Has default output

Check if the current node of the current flowchart has a default output.
Output name match regex

Check if an output's name in the current node of the current flowchart matches a regular
expression, using an index to choose the output.
Output value match regex

Check if an output's value in the current node of the current flowchart matches a regular
expression, using an index or name to choose the output.
For Each Output

Run a loop for each output in the current node of the current flowchart.

Flowchart Controller Actions
Start flowchart
Start flowchart (by name)

Starts a new flowchart instance. Use the Start node tag parameter so the flowchart starts in
that node, if left empty the flowchart's starting node set in the editor is used. The Flowchart
tag parameter assigns the flowchart instance a tag to later identify it elsewhere in the event
sheet. The Set as current parameter is a shortcut to immediately set the new flowchart as
the current one.
Starting a flowchart with a previously used tag will reset the existing flowchart!

In the case of passing multiple tags as a space separated string to Start node tag, all the
tags must match for a node to be used as the starting position.

If there is more than one node that matches Start node tag, the first one found will be used.

Set flowchart

Page 612 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
Set flowchart

Set the flowchart with the specified tag as the current one. All actions, conditions and
expressions used after this will refer to the specified flowchart, except for the case a tag is
provided to get information from a specific flowchart instance other than the current one.
End flowchart

Release the current flowchart.
End flowchart by tag

Release the flowchart with the specified tag.
Reset flowchart

Reset the current flowchart, making the default initial node the current one.
Reset flowchart by tag

Reset the specified flowchart, making the default initial node the current one in that
flowchart.
Go to next node

Go to the next node, using an index or a name to choose the output to follow.
Go to default node

Go to the next node, following the default output. If no default output has been set, nothing
will happen.
Go to node

Go to an arbitrary node in the current flowchart using tags to find it. When passing multiple
tags as a space separated string, a node must match all the tags before it can be visited.
Go to previous node

Go to the previous node of the current flowchart.
Go to parent node

Go to the parent node of the current node in the current flowchart, using an index or tags to
find the parent node. If the node only has one parent the action will just move the flowchart
to that node. When passing multiple tags as a space separated string, the parent node must
match all the tags before it can be visited. If there are multiple matches, the first valid one is
used.

Page 613 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Flowchart Controller Expressions
FlowchartTag

Return the tag of the current flowchart.
NodeTag

Return the full tag string of the current node in the current flowchart.
NodeTagAt(Index)

Return a tag of the current node in the current flowchart using a 0-based index to look it up.
NodeTagCount

Return the amount of tags of the current node in the current flowchart.
OutputCount

Return the output count of the current node in the current flowchart.
OutputNameAt(Index)

Return the output name at the specified index in the current node of the current flowchart.
OutputNameDefault

Return the default output name in the current node of the current flowchart. If no default
output is set, an empty string is returned.
OutputValue(IndexOrName)

Return the output value at the specified index or name in the current node of the current
flowchart.
OutputValueDefault

Return the default output value in the current node of the current flowchart. If no default
output is set, an empty string is returned.
ParentCount

Return the parent count of the current node in the current flowchart.
ParentTag(ParentIndex)

Page 614 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Return the full parent tag string of the current node in the current flowchart, specifying a
parent index.
ParentTagAt(ParentIndex, TagIndex)

Return a parent tag of the current node in the current flowchart, specifying a parent index
and a 0-based index to look up the tag.
ParentIndex(ParentTag)

Return the parent node index of the current node in the current flowchart, specifying a parent
tag.
NodeTagInFlowchart(FlowchartTag)

Return the full tag string of the current node in the specified flowchart.
NodeTagAtInFlowchart(FlowchartTag, TagIndex)

Return a tag of the current node in the specified flowchart using a 0-based index to look up
the node tag.
NodeTagCountInFlowchart(FlowchartTag)

Return the tag count of the current node in the specified flowchart.
OutputCountInFlowchart(FlowchartTag)

Return the output count of the current node in the specified flowchart.
OutputNameAtInFlowchart(Index, FlowchartTag)

Return the output name at the specified index in the current node of the specified flowchart.
OutputNameDefaultInFlowchart(FlowchartTag)

Return the default output name in the current node of the specified flowchart. If no default
output is set, an empty string is returned.
OutputValueInFlowchart(IndexOrName, FlowchartTag)

Return the output value at the specified index or name in the current node of the specified
flowchart.
OutputValueDefaultInFlowchart(FlowchartTag)

Page 615 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Return the default output value in the current node of the specified flowchart. If no default
output is set, an empty string is returned.
ParentCountInFlowchart(FlowchartTag)

Return the parent count of the current node in the specified flowchart.
ParentTagInFlowchart(ParentIndex, FlowchartTag)

Return the full parent tag string of the current node in the specified flowchart using an index
to pick the parent.
ParentTagAtInFlowchart(ParentIndex, FlowchartTag, tagIndex)

Return a parent tag of the current node in the specified flowchart using an index to pick the
parent and a 0-based index to look up the parent tag.
ParentIndexInFlowchart(ParentTag, FlowchartTag)

Return the parent index of the current node in the specified flowchart using a tag to pick the
parent.
CurOutputName

Return the current output name in a For Each Output loop.
CurOutputValue

Return the current output value in a For Each Output loop.
CurIsDefault

Check if the current output in a For Each Output loop is the default one.
The expressions that accept a flowchart tag are useful because they offer a way to get
information from a specific flowchart instance without executing any existing node change
or flowchart change triggers.

Page 616 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FUNCTION
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/function

The Function plugin has been replaced with a new built-in functions feature and is now
deprecated. This manual entry is provided for archival reasons only and may be removed
in future.
The Function object can run a different event (On function) in an action (Call function). This is
analogous to functions in traditional programming languages. Using functions can help you
organise events and avoid having to duplicate groups of actions or events.

About functions
The main purpose of the Function object is using the Call function action. This takes the name of
a function (e.g. Call function "CreateEnemy"). The action then triggers the corresponding On
function event (e.g. On function "CreateEnemy"), running the event's actions and any sub-events,
before returning to the original Call function action and continuing from where it was.
As another example, suppose you create an enemy with random stats in a game every 5
seconds using this event:

Suppose there are two other events where you want to create an enemy the same way: one
when a player walks in to a trap, and another one every 4 seconds when in a boss fight. Without
functions, you may have to copy-and-paste the actions multiple times, like this:

Page 617 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Notice this is becoming inconvenient. There may be times you need to repeat the actions in even
more places. If you want to make a change, you then have to find every place you repeated the
actions, and repeat the change. We can remove the repetition using functions. By creating a
CreateEnemy function which has the repeated actions, we can replace all the repeated actions
with a Call function action like this:

This works identically to the previous events, but is much shorter and more convenient. We can
use Call "CreateEnemy" action anywhere we want to create an enemy, and it uses the same set
of actions in the On "CreateEnemy" event.
It is often useful to split many parts of your events in to functions like this, so they can be
conveniently re-used across event sheets.

Parameters

Page 618 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

When calling a function, you can also pass parameters. These are simply numbers or strings that
are made available to the function. For example, the CreateEnemy function from the previous
example could be modified to take two parameters: the X and the Y co-ordinates at which to
create the enemy. This helps functions to be made more general purpose by using extra
information from the action calling the function.
To add a parameter to a function call, click the Add parameter link that appears in the
Parameters dialog when editing the Call function action. This is a special link that only appears
for this action in the Function object. Inside an On function event, you can then use the Param
expression with the zero-based index of the parameter to retrieve the corresponding value.

Advanced function features
Like in programming languages, the Function object supports the following:
Functions calling other functions
Functions calling themselves (recursion)
Returning values from functions
Calling functions from expressions (which also returns the return value)
Note that functions calling other functions or recursing create a new "stack" of local variables. In
other words, like in programming languages, local variables are unique at each level of function
call. This does not apply to static local variables or global variables.
Also note the Function object logs to the browser console if it is used incorrectly, such as calling
a non-existent function or accessing a parameter that was not passed. This can help identify
problems using functions in large projects.

Returning values from functions
Functions can also return a result. For example, a factorial function could calculate the
mathematical result and return it. In an On function event, the return value can be set using the
Set return value action.
If the event was called using the Call function action, the returned value is afterwards available
using the ReturnValue expression. Functions can also be called directly from an expression using
the Call expression; in this case the return value is automatically returned as the result of the Call
expression.

JavaScript integration
It is strongly recommended to use the Addon SDK to integrate JavaScript code with Construct.
However it is possible to trigger a function in the Function object from JavaScript code using the
following function:

Page 619 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

if (self.c2_callFunction)
self.c2_callFunction("name", ["param1", "param2"]);

(The name still refers to C2 for legacy reasons.) Note if the Function object is not included in a
project, the c2_callFunction function will not exist, so the if check is necessary before using it.
The function with the given "name" is triggered synchronously. Parameters are optional and can
be omitted, but must be provided as an array in the second argument, and parameters may only
be string or number values (any other types will return as 0 in Construct). The c2_callFunction
method also returns the return value set in Construct (if any), and also can only return a string or
number.

Function conditions
Compare parameter

Compare the value of one of the parameters to a function call. This condition should only be
used in an On function event, since outside of function calls there are no parameters set.
On function

Triggered when the corresponding Call function action is used.

Function actions
Call expression

This is an alternative to the Call function action. It simply provides a parameter to enter an
expression, and the result is ignored. You can use this to call a function via the
Function.Call(...) expression, which may be more convenient if using a very large number of
parameters.
Call function

Trigger the corresponding On function events. Additional parameters can be passed that are
accessed by the Param expression.
Set return value

In a function event, set the value to be returned to the caller. This is either returned by the Call
expression or accessed later using the ReturnValue expression.

Function expressions
Call

Page 620 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Call a function directly from an expression. The expression returns the return value that was
set in the function, or 0 if no return value was set. Additional parameters can optionally be
added after the name of the function, e.g. Function.Call("CreateEnemy", 123, 456) .

Param

Retrieve a parameter passed to a function call by its zero-based index. For example,
Function.Param(0) returns the value of the first parameter.

ParamCount

Return the number of parameters passed to a function call.
ReturnValue

Return the value set using the Set return value action from the last function call. If Set return
value is not used in a function, it returns 0.

Page 621 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

GAMEPAD
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/gamepad

The Gamepad object allows you to detect input from a connected console controller, PC
gamepad or joystick. While a range of devices ought to work with the Gamepad object, it is
designed for and works best with the XBox controller, or similarly designed controllers (with the
same button/stick layout). Click here to open an example of gamepad control.
Unfortunately whether or not a specific device is supported depends on a lot of factors,
including the operating system, available drivers, and the browser's support. This makes it
difficult to know in advance if a specific device will work. The XBox controller works out of the
box on Windows systems with the Google Chrome browser. The Playstation controllers do not
typically work without installing third party drivers since it is not officially supported.
Some mobile devices also support gamepad input, either by special hardware accessories, or by
connecting a gamepad via a cable or wirelessly.
To prevent allowing websites to track you by your available controllers, most browsers
supporting Gamepad input will report that there are no controllers connected until a button is
pressed on one of the devices.

Key mapping
Different controllers have different button layouts, or the buttons have different names. For
example, the Playstation 3 controller uses square, circle, triangle and X buttons, whereas the
XBox controller uses A, B, X and Y (note that X appears in a different position in each controller
too). For consistency, the Gamepad object refers to the XBox layout only.

Controlling behaviors with Gamepad
To control behaviors with Gamepad input, use the Simulate control action. An example is shown
below for controlling a Platform behavior with the left analog stick and A to jump.

For more information, see the section on Custom controls in the Behavior reference.

Multiple gamepads
Page 622 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Multiple gamepad devices can be connected to a single computer. To differentiate between
them, most actions, conditions and expressions in the Gamepad object also take a Gamepad
parameter. This is a zero-based index of the controller. For example, 0 identifies the first
controller, 1 identifies the second, and so on. This allows you to make multiplayer gamepadcontrolled games.

Gamepad properties
Analog deadzone

Devices with analog joysticks are extremely sensitive to input. This allows fine control in
games, but also means a joystick in rest position can still register a fairly large amount of
movement. If this wasn't ignored, a joystick-controlled player could start moving around
erratically even when the player is not touching the control. To solve this all values close to
rest position are ignored. Joystick movement is in the range -100 to 100 on each axis, and if
the distance from the center is below the Analog deadzone value, it will return 0. For example,
the default is 25, so values inside a circle with the radius 25 will still count as zero. This is the
recommended value to ensure even ageing controllers with highly erratic input do not cause
unintended player movement.

Gamepad conditions
Gamepad supports vibration type

Check if a currently connected gamepad supports a particular kind of vibration effect, such
as dual rumble or trigger rumble. Note both the browser and the hardware must support the
vibration type - for example it is possible a gamepad has hardware support for trigger
rumble, but one browser supports it where another browser does not.
Has gamepads

True if any gamepad is connected and activated. To prevent websites tracking you based on
the available gamepads, most browsers supporting Gamepad input will report that no
controllers are connected until a button is pressed on one of the devices.
On gamepad connected

Triggered when a gamepad device is connected to the computer. To prevent websites
tracking you based on the available gamepads, most browsers supporting Gamepad input
will report that no controllers are connected until a button is pressed on one of the devices,
when On gamepad connected will also run.
In this trigger, the GamepadIndex expression gives the index of the gamepad that was
connected.

Page 623 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On gamepad disconnected

Triggered when a gamepad device is disconnected from the computer, such as by pulling out
its cable.
In this trigger, the GamepadIndex expression gives the index of the gamepad that was
disconnected.

Compare axis

Compare the position of an analog joystick on a specific gamepad. Values within the Analog
deadzone are returned as 0. Axes values range from -100 to 100.
Is button down

True if a given button is currently down on a specific gamepad. The buttons are always
referred to according to the XBox controller layout.
Is button index down

True if a given button by its numerical index is currently down on a specific gamepad.
On any button pressed

Triggered when any button is pressed on a specific gamepad. The ButtonIndex expression is
set with the index of the button. The special value -1 can also be used for the gamepad, in
which case the trigger will fire when any button on any gamepad is pressed, and the
GamepadIndex expression will also be set to the index of the gamepad where the button was
pressed.
On any button released

Triggered when any button is released on a specific gamepad. The ButtonIndex expression is
set with the index of the button. The special value -1 can also be used for the gamepad, in
which case the trigger will fire when any button on any gamepad is released, and the
GamepadIndex expression will also be set to the index of the gamepad where the button was
released.
On button index pressed

Triggered when a given button by its numerical index is pressed on a specific gamepad.
On button index released

Triggered when a given button by its numerical index is released on a specific gamepad.

Page 624 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On button pressed

Triggered when a given button is pressed on a specific gamepad. The buttons are always
referred to according to the XBox controller layout.
On button released

Triggered when a given button is released on a specific gamepad. The buttons are always
referred to according to the XBox controller layout.

Gamepad actions
Vibrate (dual rumble)
Vibrate (trigger rumble)

Initiate vibration (also known as "rumble") of a specific gamepad for a period of time given in
milliseconds. Each kind of vibration uses different rumble motors in the gamepad hardware.
The types of vibration that are supported can be checked with the Gamepad supports
vibration type condition. Each kind of vibration has different parameters for the hardware
motors, allowing for different types of rumble effects to be produced. If a vibration is already
active when this action is used, it will be replaced by this action.
Reset vibration

Stop any active vibration started by the Vibrate action for a specific gamepad. The vibration
will be immediately cancelled, so it will not fulfil the duration it was started for. If no vibration
is active, this has no effect.

Gamepad expressions
Axis(Gamepad, Index)

Retrieve the current position of an analog joystick on a specific gamepad. Index specifies left
analog X and Y or right analog X and Y axes. Axes range from -100 to 100. Axis values within
the Analog deadzone are returned as 0.
Button(Gamepad, Index)

Retrieve the current button press value of a button on a specific gamepad. Index specifies
the zero-based index of a button from the dropdown list in the Is button down condition (e.g.
0 returns the value for the A button). The returned value depends on the features of the
button: if the button is pressure sensitive, it can return any value from 0 to 100 depending on
the pressure; otherwise it returns 0 for not pressed and 100 for pressed. Buttons which are
not pressure sensitive are easier to detect using the Is button down condition.
GamepadCount

Page 625 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Return the number of currently connected and active gamepad devices. To prevent websites
tracking you based on the available gamepads, most browsers supporting Gamepad input
will report that no controllers are connected until a button is pressed on one of the devices.
GamepadID(Gamepad)

A string intended to represent the device manufacturer and model for a specific gamepad,
e.g. "XBox 360 controller". However in practice this varies depending on the system and
browser in use.
GamepadIndex

In an On gamepad connected/disconnected trigger, or when using On any button
pressed/released with a gamepad of -1, this expression indicates the index of the
corresponding gamepad.
ButtonIndex

Return the numerical index of the last button pressed on a specific gamepad. This is useful
with the On any button pressed and On any button released triggers to set up custom
controls.
RawAxis(Gamepad, Index)

Retrieve raw axis input for a specific gamepad and axis index. This returns the value without
keymapping, applying the analog deadzone, or multiplying the returned value by 100. Axis
values range from -1 to 1.
RawAxisCount(Gamepad)

Return the number of axes available in the raw input for a specific gamepad. This returns the
value without keymapping.
RawButton(Gamepad, Index)

Retrieve raw button input for a specific gamepad and button index. This returns the value
without keymapping. Button values range from 0 to 1 (pressure sensitive buttons can return
values in between).
RawButtonCount(Gamepad)

Return the number of buttons available in the raw input for a specific gamepad. This returns
the value without keymapping.

Page 626 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

GEOLOCATION
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/geolocation

The Geolocation object allows the user's current geographical location to be estimated. Note not
all devices support geolocation, and of the devices that do, the accuracy can vary significantly.
For example a desktop computer might not come with any location-tracking equipment, and only
be able to report a location accurate to a 50 kilometer radius based on their internet connection.
However this at least allows for the user's timezone, country, or possibly city or town to be
determined. On the other hand many mobile phones and tablets come equipped with GPS
equipment and can report their location as accurately as within a few meters, and track
movements in real-time.
Click here to open an example of the Geolocation plugin.

Scripting
This object has no script interface, because when using JavaScript or TypeScript coding you can
use the browser built-in Geolocation API.

Permission prompts
When requesting the user's location, for privacy reasons most platforms will prompt the user for
permission. Each platform tends to have its own specific way of asking for permission. The user
may decline the permission request, in which case On error will trigger. Your projects should
handle such a case gracefully if possible. Normally each browser or platform has a way to grant
permission when it was previously declined, but it either involves prompting again, or making
changes in the browser or app platform settings. Some platforms will fail without even
prompting the user after a single declined permission request.

Battery usage
It should be noted that tracking the user's location may involve activating GPS hardware in a
phone or tablet, which can drain the battery more quickly. Requesting high-accuracy location
information is also likely to use more power. Try to only request the user's location if absolutely
necessary, use low accuracy if suitable, and request one-off positions rather than watching the
position for a long time.

Geolocation conditions
Is supported

True if the current device supports reporting the user position with geolocation. If false, none
of the features of the object will work.

Page 627 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Is watching location

True after a successful Watch location action, until the Stop watching action is used.
On error

Triggered if an error occurs when requesting permission for, or retrieving, the user's location.
The ErrorMessage expression contains more information about the problem in this trigger.
On location update

Triggered after a successful Request location or Watch location action, when the position has
been updated. This only triggers once after a successful Request location action, but can
trigger regularly after a successful Watch location action whilst the position is tracked and
updated.

Geolocation actions
Request location

Make a one-off request for the user's current location. The user may see a permission
prompt which they must approve before any information is returned; if they decline, On error
will trigger. Accuracy can be set to High to get more accurate results, but it may take longer
to calculate and consume more battery. Timeout is the maximum time in seconds the device
may take before it must return a position or trigger On error. Maximum age is the maximum
age of a cached result that can be returned. If zero, the device will actively try to determine
the user's position at that time. However if it is nonzero, and the operating system had
previously requested the user's position within that time, the previous result may be returned
immediately instead. This is faster and can save battery, but the result will not be as close to
real-time. If a result is successfully determined, On location update will trigger.
Watch location

As with Request location, but the location will be tracked. On location update will trigger
whenever new position information is available, until the Stop watching action is used.
Watching the location can consume more battery on mobile devices than one-off requests.
Stop watching

Stop a previous successful request to watch the user's location. The position will no longer
be updated.

Geolocation expressions
The position-related expressions only update when On location update triggers, which in turn can
only occur after a successful Request location or Watch location action.

Page 628 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Accuracy
AltitudeAccuracy

The estimated accuracy in meters of the latitude and longitude (for Accuracy) or the altitude
(for AltitudeAccuracy). The accuracy may be more or less a guess, or if it is not known the
expression returns 0.
Altitude

The estimated altitude in meters relative to sea-level, or 0 if not known.
ErrorMessage

In On error, a string with some additional information about the error.
Heading
Speed

While watching a position, the direction of travel in degrees relative to due north and speed in
meters per second if available, else 0 of not available.
Latitude
Longitude

The latitude and longitude that has been determined, subject to the Accuracy (which may not
be known).
Timestamp

A timestamp of the time at which the current details were retrieved. This is measured in
milliseconds since midnight, January 1, 1970 (also known as a UNIX timestamp).

Page 629 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

GOOGLE PLAY
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/google-play

The Google Play plugin allows you to integrate your game with Google Play Game Services.
Users can log in, submit and view scores, and unlock achievements.

Setting up Google Play Game Services
Using Google Play Game Services requires that you have an account registered with the Google
Play Developer service. There may be a small one-time registration fee if you need to sign up.
For each game that you wish to use Google Play Game Services for, find the Play Games
Services section in the developer console and follow the steps to set it up.
Once added you can edit the game details such as its description and any associated images.
You can also add achievements and leaderboards - which must be added before you can use
them in the Google Play plugin - as well as configure testing and publishing.
To ensure your finished game has permission to access the Google Play Game Services, you
need to link your "app" to your "game". Click the Linked apps section while editing the game in the
developer console, the following steps vary depending on if you are publishing as a web app or a
android app.

Publishing as a Web app
Click the button to link a Web app. You will need to fill out details such as the URL it is played
from and some authorisation details. Once completed, you should be given a client ID. This
should be in a format similar to:
12345678987-abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz1234567890.apps.googleusercontent.com
Copy and paste this client ID in to the Google Play plugin's Client ID property. It is not actually
necessary to fill in the Application ID property, but you can add it anyway: the application ID is the
number that appears beside the game name in the header of the Developer Console, e.g. "My
Super Game - 12345678". The application ID in this case is 12345678.

Publishing as an Android app
Click the button to link an Android app. You will need to select an application that you have
already registered with Google Play and provide the SHA-1 signature for the certificate you will
use to sign your application. It is important that you have provided the signature and that when
you are testing that you sign your application with the correct certificate. Your application will be
unable to login unless you do this!

Page 630 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Once completed, you should be given a client ID and application ID. For an Android app you only
need you application ID. This should be in a format similar to:
12345678987
Copy and paste this application ID in to the Google Play plugin's Game ID property.

Enabling access in preview mode
When testing your project, your game will run from https://preview.construct.net. Since this is is
different to the published URL of your game, Google Play Game Services will block access
unless you add the preview URL as a permitted location.
To do this, in the Developer Console under Game details, find the header that says API CONSOLE
PROJECT and follow the link to the API console project for your game. In the API console, select
APIs & auth, then Credentials. Notice the Javascript Origins field contains only your final URL; this
also needs to contain any preview URLs to be allowed access. Click Edit settings. Under
Authorized Javascript Origins, make sure the final URL and the preview URL appear on separate
lines, e.g.:
mywebsite.com
preview.construct.net
Click Update. Now your game should be authorised to be accessed from preview mode as well
as when you publish it.
Note that an origin is the scheme and domain only, excluding any path or filenames.

Adding a Test User
When working with an unpublished Android application you will only be able to log in with the
registered test users for that application. To add a test user click the Testing section while
editing the game in the developer console, click Add Testers and type in the email address
associated with the Google Account registered on your testing device.

Basic usage
On startup, the plugin automatically attempts to load Google Play Services. If this is successful,
then Is loaded will be true when the project starts running. If it failed then Is loaded will be false
and none of the plugin's features will work.
Next the Google Play plugin will automatically try to sign the user in. If they have successfully
signed in before, On signed in will trigger soon after startup. If they have never signed in before,
On auto-sign in failed will trigger; in this event you should show a button that allows the user to
sign in. When they click this button, use the Sign in action; if it succeeds, On signed in will be
triggered.
Page 631 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Once the user is signed in, you can make use of the other plugin features such as requesting
leaderboards, submitting high-scores, and unlocking achievements.

Asynchronous actions
Most actions in the Google Play plugin are asynchronous. This means they are not completed
immediately. Instead, the action starts a request which is sent off to the Google Play servers. A
few moments later the server will respond, and a corresponding trigger will run in the Google
Play plugin.
For example, the Request player details action does not complete immediately. The player details
are not available until On player details received triggers, which should happen shortly after
running the action. Only after the trigger runs can the player details be accessed.

Non-immediate requests and caching (Android only)
Google Play Games Services offers Immediate and Non-immediate versions of most methods.
Immediate methods will attempt to update the user's achievements / leaderboard information
on the server immediately, whereas non-immediate methods will only update the local Play
Games application on the next server sync. In line with official advice we use non-immediate
methods where available. To the users eyes it will behave nearly exactly the same, but during
testing you may experience some issues with caching. For instance, if you are adding new
leaderboards and achievements they may take up to an hour to appear on your device. This
doesn't mean it will take an hour for a hour to unlock an achievement though! Local changes
appear within the Play Games app immediately, even if it isn't synced with the server.

Google Play properties
Application ID

This is not currently necessary, but can be filled out with the application ID from the Google
Play Developer Console.
Client ID

The client ID for the game from the Google Play Developer Console. This is only required for
web applications. For more information see the section Setting up Google Play Game
Services above.
Game ID

The Game ID is only used for Android applications. It is the same as the application ID. For
more information see the section Setting up Google Play Game Services above.

Google Play conditions
Compare achievement state

Page 632 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Compare whether an achievement at an index is revealed, hidden or unlocked. The
achievement list must have already been successfully received.
On achievement list success
On achievement list fail

Triggered after the List achievements action, depending on whether the request succeeded
or failed. If successful, achievement information for the current player is then available.
On achievement metadata success
On achievement metadata fail

Triggered after the Get metadata achievements action, depending on whether the request