# Manual Construct 3  Parte 3 (líneas 24013600)

## Resumen
- remove bookmarks. (línea 7)
- As with all bars, the Bookmarks Bar can be docked anywhere in the user interface or left floating (línea 8)
- as an individual window. (línea 9)
- Bookmarks are listed in the order they occur in the project: first by event sheets in the order they (línea 10)
- shows a description by it, if possible. For example a bookmarked group will show the title of the (línea 12)
- group, a bookmarked variable will show the name of the variable, and a bookmarked event will (línea 13)
- show some text from the first condition of the event. If the bookmark position has an event (línea 14)
- number, it is also shown, and the event sheet the bookmark belongs to is also listed. (línea 15)
- THE FIND RESULTS BAR (línea 21)
- Paid plans only The Find Results Bar is displayed either when you search for text in an event (línea 24)
- highlighting and information about their location, and they can be used to navigate to the result (línea 27)
- in the project. (línea 28)
- Find results for a search term (línea 32)
- There are various different kinds of find results. These can be text matches for text searches, (línea 34)
- event matches for Find all references, instances on a layout, family members, and more. (línea 35)
- Normally navigating to a result locates and selects the relevant event in the Event Sheet View or (línea 36)
- to a reference which indicates a number of instances on a layout will instead open the Layout (línea 38)
- View, select those instances, and adjust the scroll and zoom so all the instances are visible onscreen. (línea 39)
- To navigate to a result, double-click on it, or right-click and select Go to. This allows you to (línea 40)
- review the result in its original context. (línea 41)

## Contenido

remove bookmarks.
As with all bars, the Bookmarks Bar can be docked anywhere in the user interface or left floating
as an individual window.
Bookmarks are listed in the order they occur in the project: first by event sheets in the order they
appear in the Project Bar; then by their sequence within the event sheet. Each bookmark listed
shows a description by it, if possible. For example a bookmarked group will show the title of the
group, a bookmarked variable will show the name of the variable, and a bookmarked event will
show some text from the first condition of the event. If the bookmark position has an event
number, it is also shown, and the event sheet the bookmark belongs to is also listed.

Page 76 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE FIND RESULTS BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/find-results-bar

Paid plans only The Find Results Bar is displayed either when you search for text in an event
sheet (using Ctrl + F or Event sheet►Find...), or when you use the Find all references feature
(e.g. via the Project Bar to search for an object type's references). The results are listed with
highlighting and information about their location, and they can be used to navigate to the result
in the project.

Find results for 'Find all references'

Find results for a search term

There are various different kinds of find results. These can be text matches for text searches,
event matches for Find all references, instances on a layout, family members, and more.
Normally navigating to a result locates and selects the relevant event in the Event Sheet View or
line of text in a project file. However other types display in different ways; for example navigating
to a reference which indicates a number of instances on a layout will instead open the Layout
View, select those instances, and adjust the scroll and zoom so all the instances are visible onscreen.
To navigate to a result, double-click on it, or right-click and select Go to. This allows you to
review the result in its original context.

Page 77 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Results can also be removed via the right-click menu or the Delete key, or the results cleared
entirely. You can also choose Redo search to update the results with the latest state of the
project.
There are various other search options in the toolbar at the top of the bar. This includes extra
options like a secondary search term to filter the results list by, and search location and case
sensitivity options when searching by text.
Finding in projects, especially Find all references, is an excellent way to review large projects. It
can also provide helpful reminders about what you've used and where. It's also a good way to
check if something is unused and so can be safely deleted.

Ambiguous results
In some cases, Find all references is unable to determine if a reference is a match or not. For
example if you use the system Create object by name action to create an object with a name
based on TextInput.Text the editor doesn't know what the value at runtime will actually be,
because it can't predict what the user will type in to the text input. It's possible it could refer to
the object being searched for, but it can't be certain.
To handle these cases, they are listed anyway so you can check them yourself. Ambiguous
results appear with a question mark icon to indicate they are not certain results. You can also
choose to hide all such results by unchecking Show ambiguous in the toolbar.
One reason to avoid heavy usage of dynamic features like Create object by name is to avoid
clogging up the Find all references results with ambiguous results that can't be proven to refer to
one object or another. The standard Create object action, on the other hand, uses an object
picker instead of a string expression. This means the editor does know in advance what kind of
object will be created, and thus can list it accurately when using Find all references.

Page 78 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

INSTANCES BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/bars/instance-bar

The Instances Bar shows all the instances in the current layout at a glance, it can be very useful
in large or busy layouts to quickly find specific instances.
You can also use folders to group related instances together. Hierarchies are shown as a tree
structure to quickly tell which instances are where in complex structures.

To open the Instances Bar tick the check at Menu►View►Bars►Instances Bar.

Folders

Page 79 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

To add a folder right-click anywhere in the bar and choose the appropriate option from the
context menu.

Once a folder is created you can drag & drop instances in and out of them by dragging the items
in the bar.
It is also possible to drag instances into a folder directly from the Layout View.
The order in which instances appear in the bar can also be altered by dragging and dropping.
The order of the instances and the folder structure shown by the Instances Bar are only
relevant for visual organization in the editor, it doesn't matter at runtime.

Hierarchies
Hierarchies can be set directly in the bar by dragging and dropping items on top of each other.
Dragging an instance from the Layout View on top of an item in the bar will also work for this
purpose.

Page 80 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Hierarchy in the Instances bar

Hierarchy in the Layout View

Context menu options
Common
These options are shown with any context menu in the bar.

Add folder: adds a new folder.
Expand / Collapse: expand or collapse all items with nested content.
Show more information: show additional information about each instance.
Hierarchies: show an icon next to instances which have children. In the case an instance
has a parent in a different layout (which can happen when working with global layers),
that layout will also be shown next to the item.

Page 81 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Meshes: show an icon next to instances which have a mesh and also show the
horizontal and vertical size of the mesh.
Layers & Layouts: show an icon indicating if the layer is global and the name of the layer
the instance belongs to. If the layer is not part of the current layout, also shows the
layout the layer is coming from.
Clicking the layer name will make it the currently active layer.
Plugin: show the icon and the name of the plugin.
Templates: template and replica instances show a unique icon as well as the
corresponding template name.
Timelines: show an icon next to instances belonging to a timeline as well as the names
of the timelines the instance belongs too.
Clicking the lower part of the bar also shows this menu.

Folder
These options are shown when showing a context menu for a folder.

Rename: rename the selected folder.
Delete: delete the selected folders.
Select all instances: select all the instances in the folder.

Instances
These options are shown when showing a context menu for an instance or group of instances.
Some are equivalent to the context menu options with the same names found on context menus

Page 82 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

of the Layout View.

Timeline: shown for all instances as long as there is a timeline in the project. Will have
different options depending on how the instance relates to the current timeline. This is the
same as the equivalent Layout View context menu option.
Tilemap: only shown for Tilemap plugin instances. This is the same as the equivalent Layout
View context menu option.
Z Order: shown for all instances. This is the same as the equivalent Layout View context
menu option.
Hierarchy: shown for instances that are already part of a hierarchy or when selecting
multiple instances. This is the same as the equivalent Layout View context menu option.
Template: shown only for instances which are either a template or a replica. This is the same
as the equivalent Layout View context menu option.
Mesh: shown for all instances that support meshes. This is the same as the equivalent
Layout View context menu option.
Flash selection: will make the current selection blink in the Layout View.
Scroll selection into view: scroll the Layout View to show the selected instances.
Double clicking the item in the bar will also trigger this action.

The Layout View context menu has a related option Find in Instances bar.
Lock / Unlock layer: toggle the lock state of the layer the selected instance belongs to.
Page 83 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Toggle layer visibility: toggle the visible state of the layer the selected instance belongs to.
Select layer: select the layer which the selected instance belongs to. This is the same as
selecting a layer through the Layers bar.
Delete: delete the the selection of instances.
Cut, Copy and Paste: these options do the same as the ones in the Layout view context
menu.
Find all references: searches the whole project for the selected instance.

Icons
Depending on what Show more information for option is selected, additional icons might be
shown next to an instance to better identify it.
The layer visibility checkbox and layer lock icon are shown at all times to change the
corresponding visibility and locked states of each instance individually at any time.

Locking and Visibility
Locking instances through the Instances bar is similar to locking them using the Layout View
context menu option Lock selection. This means this locked state is independent from the
locked state of the corresponding layer.
Toggling visibility of an instance works in a similar way to the locked state in that it is
independent to the visibility state of the corresponding layer.

Global Layers
When a layout is showing instances that are coming from a global layer a few unique items will
appear in the bar to make it more clear where those instances are coming from.
In the image below you can see the special Global instances folder and a Layout item showing
which instances are coming from a global layer.

Page 84 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

In that example the current layout is OtherLayout and the bar is showing that some instances
shown are coming from a global layer in the Game layout. At the bottom you can see the Layers
& Layouts option is toggled so all instances are showing which layer they belong too.
The globe icon next to some instances indicates they are part of a global layer. Instances which
don't have a globe are not part of any global layer in the current layout.
Instances highlighted in red are shown in the bar because they belong to the Game layout, but
are not in any global layer in the current layout.

Page 85 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Instances from a global layer

Instances not in any global layer

Searching
Use the search field at the top of the bar to filter instances. Items are filtered using the following
criteria and order:
1

Any match with the item name as shown in the bar.

2

Any match with the Object type name.

3

Any match with the plugin name.

4

Any match with any of the tags an instance might have.

5

Any match with the template name an instance might have.

6

Using the special "mesh" (or it's translated form) string will match all instances which have a
mesh.

7

Using the special "hierarchy" (or it's translated form) string will match all instances which are
part of a hierarchy.

Drag & Drop
Page 86 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

As mentioned earlier it is possible to drag & drop instances within the bar to arrange them in
which ever way is more useful.
It is also possible to drag instances from the bar into the Layout View, which will create clones of
the dragged instances in the dropped position.
Dragging instances from the Layout View into the Instances Bar has the same effect as dragging
the corresponding items within the Instances bar.

Page 87 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE LAYOUT VIEW
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/layout-view

The Layout View is a visual designer for your objects. It allows you to set up a pre-arranged
layout of objects, such as a game level, menu or title screen. In other tools, layouts may be
referred to as scenes, rooms, frames or stages. See also the manual section on layouts.

The Layout View

The dashed rectangle in the top left of the layout area indicates the viewport size in the layout.
By default the viewport appears in the top left of the layout, so to align something relative to the
viewport, it should be placed inside this rectangle.
In the corner of the view appears a small status bar with information about the current mouse
position in the layout, the current zoom level, and the current active layer. The active layer is
important since it is the layer new object instances are added to. The active layer can be
changed by selecting a different layer in the Layers Bar.

Adding, modifying and deleting objects
Double-click a space in the layout or right-click and select Insert new object to add a new object
type. This will bring up the Create New Object Type dialog.
To create new instances of an existing object type, another object can be control + dragged,
copy and pasted, or dragged and dropped from the Project Bar. (Make sure you're clear on the
difference between Object Types and Instances as described in Project Structure.) When
dragging and dropping from the Project Bar, you can also use templates to define the default
properties of the instance that is created.
Page 88 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

A shortcut for importing image files as Sprite objects is to drag and drop image files in to the
Layout View. This automatically creates a new Sprite object type with the dragged image. If
multiple image files are dragged, the Sprite is assigned an animation with the dragged images as
animation frames. Where supported, animated image file formats like GIF and APNG can also be
dragged and dropped in and will be used as a Sprite animation. (Animated image file formats
can also be imported to the Animations Editor where they will also be split out in to separate
frames.)
Chrome and Edge support importing animated image file formats this way, but other
browsers may not support it, in which case they will only be able to use the first frame.
SVG files can also be drag-and-dropped in and a SVG Picture object will be created for it.
Instances can be moved by dragging and dropping them with the mouse. Hold Shift to axislock the drag to diagonals. Alternatively they can be nudged 1 pixel at a time with the arrow keys
(hold shift to nudge 10 pixels), or co-ordinates can be typed in directly to the Properties Bar.
The Delete key or right-click Delete option deletes instances. Deleting all instances of an object
does not remove the object type from the project. To entirely remove an object from the project
it should be deleted via the Project Bar.
Click objects to select them. Objects cannot be selected if their layer is locked. Hold Control
while clicking to select multiple objects, or click and drag a selection rectangle to select all
objects in an area. The Properties Bar displays properties for all currently selected objects, so
changing a property sets it for every selected object.
When a single object is selected it appears with resize handles around it.

Click and drag the resize handles to stretch the object. Hold Shift to proportionally resize the
object. Hold control to resize relative to the object origin, which appears as a small dot on the
selected object.
Rotatable objects like Sprite can be rotated by moving the mouse just outside the resize
handles, away from the object. When you do this the mouse cursor will change to a rotation
arrow. When you see this, click and drag to rotate the object.
Sometimes the resize handles, or rotate cursor, can get in the way of other objects. If this
happens, hold Alt to temporarily hide the resize handles and disable rotation. This allows you to
select another object instead of modify the selected object.

Page 89 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Using tilemaps
If you are designing a tile-based game, you can insert the Tilemap object and edit tiles in the
Layout View. To find out more, see the manual entry on the Tilemap Bar.

Scrolling and zooming
There are a few ways to scroll in the Layout View:
The vertical and horizontal scrollbars at the edges of the view
Scroll the mouse wheel to scroll vertically. You can also hold Shift to scroll horizontally.
Hold the middle mouse button and drag the mouse
Hold Space and move the mouse (useful for laptops with track pads)
On desktop systems, middle-mouse dragging is probably the most convenient way to move
around the layout.
Zooming is useful to focus on a small area or see an overview of the entire layout. There are
several ways to zoom:
The Zoom options in the View menu when right-clicking in the Layout View
Hold Control and scroll the mouse wheel. Hold both Control + Shift to double or halve
the zoom (e.g. 100%, 200%, 400%...)
Ctrl and + or - on the keyboard. Hold Shift to double or halve the zoom.
Press Control + 0 to return to 100% zoom.

Selection wrapping
If you select two or more objects, you can wrap the selection by pressing Enter or right-clicking
and selecting Wrap selection. This allows you to rotate and stretch the selection as a whole.
Wrapped selections appear with a different color selection box, as shown below:

Wrapping a selection in the Layout View

Wrapped selections can be resized and rotated as if they are one large object. For example the
selection can be enlarged and rotated, and all objects maintain their position relative to each
other.

Page 90 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Wrapped selections resize and rotate as one

While a selection is wrapped, click any of the objects in the wrapped selection to make that
object the rotation origin.

Containers
Objects that are grouped in to Containers highlight yellow in the Layout View. Containers can
also be set to automatically wrap their selection. If you still need to select an individual object in
an automatically wrapped selection, hold Alt and click one of the objects.

Setting up a hierarchy
You can connect objects together in a hierarchy - also known as a scene graph - in the Layout
View. This works similarly to using the Add child hierarchy action, but set up in the editor.
To set up a hierarchy, select multiple objects, and then right-click the object you wish to be the
parent (i.e. above the others in the hierarchy) and select Hierarchy►Add selection to this
instance. Arrows will appear pointing from the parent to the children to indicate the hierarchy.

When the children are selected, a new hierarchy section appears in the Properties Bar allowing
you to choose which properties the child transforms with, such as the position, angle, and
whether the child destroys with the parent. At runtime the child will follow any changes to the
Page 91 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

parent (for the enabled properties) - often giving a visual appearance that the objects are
connected, or form a single larger object.
Once a hierarchy is set up, other options also appear to detach objects: Remove from parent to
remove a child from its parent, and Remove all children to detach the entire hierarchy below that
object.
The root instance also has a Select mode property that, similar to containers, allows
automatically selecting the entire hierarchy, also optionally with selection wrapping. If this is
enabled, you can always hold Alt and click an instance to select it individually regardless of the
select mode. The layout's editor properties also include a Show hierarchy option that lets you
toggle whether or not arrows indicating the hierarchy, pointing from parents to children, are
shown on top of objects.
The layout view will preview hierarchies both when previewing timelines and when previewing
behaviors that support previewing.

Editing meshes
You can create meshes for certain kinds of objects in the Layout View, as the editor counterpart
to the mesh distortion feature. This lets you do things like create fluid level designs as shown in
the Mesh platforms example. Meshes also affect collisions, so behaviors like Platform interact
with them as they appear.
To create a mesh, right-click an instance and choose Mesh►Create mesh.... You must specify a
mesh size of at least 2x2. Once created, the mesh appears highlighted in green, with new green
handles that you can click and drag to adjust the mesh. The mesh starts in a simple grid that
does not alter the appearance of the object - once you move a mesh point it will start to change
from its default appearance.

You can also hold Shift while dragging a mesh point to move it without distorting the image.
This can create a kind of mask or cut-out appearance.
When you click a mesh point, it will also appear selected and display properties for that mesh
point in the Properties Bar. This allows precise control over the exact details of the mesh point,
as well as providing informational values such as the mesh column and row. The Z elevation of
the mesh point can also be modified in the Properties Bar, allowing for 3D mesh distortion. To
learn more, see the tutorial Using 3D features in Construct.
Once an object has a mesh you can access some new options in the Mesh sub-menu:

Page 92 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set mesh size: change the number of columns and rows in the mesh. Note this will also
reset the mesh back to its default grid.
Reset mesh: resets the mesh back to its default grid, which does not alter the appearance of
the object.
Stop editing mesh: removes the green handles so the mesh can no longer be edited,
restoring the default selection for standard move and resize interactions with the object.
Once selected you can use the Edit mesh option to go back to editing the mesh.
Remove mesh: removes the mesh entirely, reverting the object to not using a mesh.
The layout's editor properties also include a Show meshes option that lets you toggle whether or
not the green mesh outline is shown on top of objects with meshes.

Other
To go to the associated event sheet, press Ctrl + E or right-click and select Edit event sheet.
The Z order of objects within a layer can be adjusted by right-clicking and selecting Z
Order►Send to top of layer or Z Order►Send to bottom of layer. You can also open the Z Order
Bar Paid plans only for advanced control.
Objects can be snapped to a grid for tile placement, and the collision polygons of the displayed
objects can also be outlined. These features can be enabled in the layout's properties.
The right-click menu in the layout view also provides some alignment tools under the Align submenu. These allow you to quickly space objects equally or align objects along their edges. When
aligning, the objects are aligned to the particular object you right-clicked.
The Animations editor can be brought up by double-clicking objects with images or animations
like Tiled Background and Sprite. You can also double-click Text objects to edit their initial text in
a dialog.
Effects will be displayed in the layout view if enabled in project properties.

Page 93 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE EVENT SHEET VIEW
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/event-sheet-view

The Event Sheet View is where events can be added, viewed and edited in an event sheet using
the event system - Construct's alternative to traditional programming.
The event system has a lot of features, so the event system has its own section of the manual.
This section will simply cover the basics of using the Event Sheet View.

The Event Sheet View

Diagram of an event
The following image illustrates the key parts of an event.

Events are made up of three major sections:
1

The event block, which contains the conditions. Notice the margin to the left of the condition
which allows you to select the entire event.

2

The conditions, which are each listed inside the event block.

3

The actions, which are listed to the right of the event block.

Conditions and actions can be selected by clicking on them. The entire event can be selected
(which also selects all its conditions and actions) by clicking the event margin, or the bottom
part of the event block. The event margin can also be right-clicked to access a menu allowing
things like adding conditions or sub-events.
As with the Layout View, multiple selections can be made by holding Control and clicking
different items. However, you can only have either events, conditions or actions selected at a
Page 94 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

time (e.g. you can't have both a condition and action selected at once). You can also hold Shift
and click an event, condition or action to select all the items in a line between the selection and
clicked item.

Creating events
There are a number of ways to add a new event:
Double-click a space in the event sheet, or right-click in a space to see a menu of things to
add
Click the Add event link which comes after the last event in a sheet or group, or click the
Add... link on the right
Right-click an event's margin and choose an item from the Add menu
When you add a new event, the dialog that appears is for adding the first condition (see the Add
Condition dialog). To add more conditions to an event, right-click the margin or an existing
condition and select Add another condition, or use the Add... link on the right of the Add action
link.
Actions can be added by clicking the Add action link (if it has not been hidden in the ribbon), or
right-clicking the margin or an existing action and selecting Add another action. See also the
Add Action dialog.

Modifying events
Double-click or select and press Enter on condition or action to edit it.
Events, conditions and actions can be dragged and dropped around the event sheet. Holding
Control and dragging will duplicate the dragged event, condition or action. Event items can also
be cut, copied and pasted.
You may find it convenient to organise events in to groups, which can also be activated and
deactivated as a whole.
Press R or right-click and use the Replace object option to quickly swap objects referenced in the
selection. Note that objects with references to instance variables or behaviors in the selection
can only be swapped with other objects with the same instance variables and behaviors which
have the same names and types.

Scrolling and scale
There are several ways to scroll in the Event Sheet View:
The vertical scrollbar to the right of the view
Scrolling the mouse wheel
Middle-clicking to pan the view

Page 95 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Pressing Space, up/down arrows or page up/down
There are some options to adjust the text size in this view as well:
Hold Control and scroll the mouse wheel
Press Control + + or Right-click and use the Event sheet►Font size menu
Use the browser's zoom feature, but note this scales the whole of Construct, not just the text
scale in the Event Sheet View.

Finding in events
Paid plans only You can search for some text in an event sheet by pressing Ctrl + F or rightclicking and selecting Event sheet►Find.... This opens a dialog that allows you to enter text to
search for, with options to look in the current sheet or the entire project, and whether to make it a
case-sensitive search. (Case sensitive searches count uppercase and lowercase characters as
different, e.g. "SPRITE" and "sprite" are different with a case-sensitive search.) When you click
Find, the results are displayed in the Find Results Bar.

Find all references
Paid plans only Text search is not always appropriate for finding in events. For example if you
want to find all events referring to an object named Sprite, searching for the text Sprite will also
return results for other names like Sprite2, since they also include the search term. To solve this,
you can use the Find all references feature. This is available in many places in Construct for
various kinds of things like behaviors and instance variables as well. For objects, you can rightclick an object in the Project Bar and select Find all references. This will open the Find Results
Bar with a comprehensive and precise list of all references to that object, excluding any other
references that happen to include the object name. This is a great way to easily review your
project with confidence the results are what you want.

Page 96 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE FLOWCHART VIEW
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/flowchart-view

The Flowchart View allows visually editing a flowchart by setting up nodes, making connections
between the nodes to form a tree structure and adding information that will be associated with
each node. See also the manual section for flowcharts.

The Flowchart View

Asides from showing the nodes and the connections between them, there is also a status bar at
the bottom which displays the current zoom level, the caption of the last selected node and the
index, and the name and value of the last selected output.

Adding and deleting nodes
To add new nodes, right-click in any empty space of the flowchart view and tap the Add node
option.

Context menu option to add a node

Page 97 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

To delete a node you can do one of two things:
Right-click on the caption of a node or any part which is not an output and choose the Delete
option.
Press Backspace or Delete after a node has been selected.

Context menu option to delete a node

Editing nodes
Once a node has been created, there are a number of things that can be edited about them,
including:
Adding outputs

This can be done by:
Right-clicking on the node and choosing the Add option from the context menu.
Clicking on the Add link at the bottom left of each node.
Clicking the Add link in the Properties Bar when it is showing properties for a node.

Page 98 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Context menu option

Node link

Deleting outputs

This can be done by:
Right-clicking on the output and choosing the Delete option from the context menu.
Clicking the corresponding Remove link in the Properties bar when it is showing
properties for a node.

Page 99 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Context menu option

Properties bar

Editing the tags

This can be done by:
Typing in the labelled text box in the node itself.
Editing the corresponding property in the Properties bar.

Page 100 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Tag text box

Properties bar

Use multiple tags by separating them with spaces.

Editing an output's name

This can be done by:
Double clicking on an output's name.
Right-clicking on an output's name and choosing the Edit option.
Editing the corresponding property in the Properties bar.

Page 101 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Context menu option

Properties bar

Editing an output's value

This can be done by:
Double clicking on an output's value.
Right-clicking on an output's value and choosing the Edit option.
Clicking on the button next to the value.
Editing the corresponding property in the Properties bar.

Page 102 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Button next to value

Properties bar

The Caption of a node can be edited from the Properties bar, by right clicking it and choosing the
Edit caption option or by double clicking it on the corresponding node.
A few properties of nodes can only be edited from the Properties Bar, such as Start node and
Color.

Sorting outputs in a node
After an output is added to a node it is possible to change its position by clicking and dragging it
to be on top or below another output in the same node.

Connecting nodes
To connect two nodes click an output icon and then drag to the input of another node. This can
be done the other way around too, clicking and dragging from an input icon into an output icon.

Page 103 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Input Icon

Output Icon

Clicking and dragging from an output and letting go over empty space in the flowchart will
show a context menu to add nodes. If any option is picked a new and already connected
node will be created.

Unlinking nodes
To remove the connection between two nodes, right click on the corresponding output or input
and choose the Unlink option from the context menu.
Links can also be selected by clicking on them (the cursor changes when clicking will select it),
when a link is selected it will show as a "marching ants" animation and at that point it can be
deleted by using the Backspace or Delete keys in the keyboard.
Unlink from Output Icon

Connecting many outputs to the same input
In the case of connecting multiple outputs to the same input, each of the parent nodes will start
showing a Parent Index property, both in the node and the Properties bar.
The Parent Index can be used with some actions and expressions that need to choose which
parent to use in the case a node has more than one.
Page 104 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Parent Index in node

Properties Bar

Moving and resizing nodes
Nodes can be moved by clicking and dragging from the caption and can be resized by clicking
and dragging from the borders.
The columns in each node can also be resized by clicking and dragging between them.
Move drag

Resize drag

Column resiz

Page 105 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The position, size and column size of the nodes in a flowchart is only for display purposes
and has no effect at runtime.

Multi-selection
By holding Shift while selecting nodes and outputs it is possible to select multiple elements at
the same time.
Doing this it is possible to delete multiple nodes and outputs at the same time as well as moving
multiple nodes at the same time.

Rectangle selection tool
Clicking and dragging in empty space will trigger the appearance of a selection rectangle. Any
nodes overlapping the rectangle when the pointer is released will be selected. If Shift is held
down the nodes will be added to any existing selection.

Cut, copy and paste
Cut, copy and paste of nodes is supported through context menu options and the common
keyboard shortcuts. Cutting or copying when there is an active multi-selection will perform the
appropriate action on the whole selection.
Once there is flowchart content on the clipboard it is also possible to paste it in a different
flowchart to the original.

Scrolling and Zooming
There are a few ways to scroll in the Flowchart View:
Use the vertical and horizontal scrollbars at the edges of the view.
Scroll the mouse wheel to scroll vertically. You can also hold Shift to scroll horizontally.
Hold the middle mouse button and drag the mouse.
Hold Space and move the mouse.
On desktop systems, middle-mouse dragging is probably the most convenient way to move
around the flowchart.
To zoom hold Control (Meta on Mac) and scroll the mouse wheel.
Make sure to check the Keyboard shortcuts section of the manual for a complete list.

Managing complex flowcharts

Page 106 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

When flowcharts start becoming large it can be difficult to keep track of what is going on just by
looking at it.
These are a few features that can help with that:
Node colors

All nodes can be given a unique color which is applied to it's border. Helps highlight
important nodes.
Output link colors

Each output can be given a unique color that is used to draw it's corresponding link. This can
help to differentiate between links when it starts getting crowded. This property can only be
changed from the properties of an output shown in the Properties Bar.
Output link mode

Each output can use two different methods to draw it's corresponding link. It can be either a
straight line (default method), or it can use path finding so the link avoids overlapping other
nodes. This can help in cases were a straight link is overlapping other nodes making the
flowchart look messy. This property can only be changed from the properties of an output
shown in the Properties Bar
Reference nodes

This types of nodes are used as a placeholder for a different flowchart. Can be useful to split
up large flowcharts in more manageable chunks.
Comment nodes

This types of nodes are used to place comments directly in a flowchart.

Preset nodes
Nodes can be saved to be used later as a base to create new nodes.
This can be useful in more complex use cases as it is likely that in any given project all of the
existing flowchart nodes will follow a similar structure so they can be easily processed by an
Event Sheet.
Manually adding all the outputs and editing the names of the outputs so they match the format
being used every single time a node is created can quickly become tedious and also error prone.
Identifying the format of the nodes that are going to be used more often and saving them as
presets can save time, avoid errors and just make the experience of editing a flowchart a little bit
more enjoyable.

Page 107 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Saving a node as a preset is easy, you can either change the corresponding property in the
Properties bar or use the Preset►Add to presets context menu option of a node.
Preset Context Menu

Properties Bar

Once there are some nodes set as presets, a new option to create nodes will appear among the
context menu options to create nodes.

Page 108 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Clicking on it will show a dialog with all the preset nodes in the current project.

The Preset node picker dialog shows all the preset nodes as a tree with the flowchart they
belong to as their top most parent. The tree like other similar controls in Construct allows to,
create folders, delete, rename and rearrange items as needed.
The name used for the items in the tree is the caption of the corresponding node, so renaming
an item in the picker dialog will change the caption of the corresponding node.
Once a new node is created from a preset, the base node and the new node are independent.
Modifying the base won't have any effect on the new node!

Page 109 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

All preset nodes are available to be used in any flowchart of the same project.

Disabling nodes and outputs
When editing a flowchart it can be useful to disable nodes or outputs to try out runtime changes
without outright deleting elements of the flowchart. This can be thought as commenting lines of
code in traditional programming, a method to make changes that are not yet final.
Nodes and outputs can be disabled using the corresponding context menu options or by means
of the Properties bar.
Node Context Menu

Output Context Menu

Both disabled nodes and outputs give feedback of the state in the main view to make them
easily identifiable.

Page 110 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Disabled Node

Disabled Output

At runtime, a disabled node is treated as if it's not there, so if the state of the flowchart tries to
advance into a disabled node, it won't happen, effectively cutting off any nodes past the disabled
one.
Similarly a disabled output is treated as if it doesn't exist at runtime, it can't be followed, it's
information can't be queried and it's not considered in the for each loop that iterates through
outputs.

Default outputs
Outputs can be set as the default one in their node by a context menu option or through the
Properties bar.

Page 111 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Context Menu

Properties Bar

The two use cases of this setting are the following:
1

A default output can be chosen at runtime using the Flowchart Controller ACEs that specifically
target them. This allows to more easily manage a default option in each node without the need
of enforcing a convention when designing the nodes.

Default output
2

In the case of a node being disabled, the runtime follows default outputs automatically if the
state of the flowchart falls in a disabled node. If the following node is also disabled the runtime
will attempt to continue following default outputs until it lands on a node which is not disabled.

Page 112 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Disabled and Bypassed node

If a node doesn't have an explicit default output set, the Flowchart Controller ACEs that
target default outputs don't do anything.

The editor doesn't allow to form infinite loops of disabled nodes with default outputs
because it would crash the runtime. The editor will give feedback if such a structure is
attempted to be setup and revert the changes.

Page 113 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

THE ANIMATIONS EDITOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/interface/animations-editor

Construct has a fully-featured built-in image and animations editor, used to create animations for
the Sprite object. When opening for an object without animations, such as Tiled Background, the
animation editing features are hidden and it acts as a normal image editor. For brevity it is
consistently referred to as the Animations Editor, even in cases where it is only editing a single
image.
To open this editor, double-click an object with an image or animations in the Layout View or
Project Bar.

The Animations Editor

Note each pane in the Animation Editor can be resized by dragging the borders, similar to how
you can with the main Construct interface. This lets you customise the layout of the Animation
Editor.

Color palette
The color palette appears on the left and allows a color to be picked for the drawing tools. You
can choose both a primary and secondary color with left and right click. The pane also has a
number of cells that can be used to remember a set of colors. Right-click a cell to save or use
the primary or secondary color. By default left-clicking the cell will set the primary color.

Saving a palette
Right clicking anywhere in the area where swatches of the color palette are will bring up a
context menu with the option Save palette, click it to save the palette and be able to retrieve it

Page 114 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

later. Saved palettes are associated with the object type or project file that is currently being
edited, but can be used on other object types or project files.

Picking a palette
If the project has any saved palettes, one can be picked by either:
1

Clicking on the Pick palette option in the context menu.

2

Clicking the button on top of the swatches with the label Palette.

Any of those methods will bring up a dialog from which any of the palettes stored in the project
can be picked.

Downloading palettes as a file
One of the secondary options of the Save tool, found in the top toolbar, is to save a single palette
as a JSON file, or multiple palettes as a zip file. You can choose to save the currently selected
palette, all the palettes available to the current object type or all the palettes available to the
current project.

Loading palettes from a file
Similar to the Save tool, the Load tool has a secondary option to load palettes. It can load
individual palettes or multiple ones bundled in a zip file. All the palettes are loaded into the
current object type.
The tool only understands palette files in the format that is saved by the Save tool. If you
wish to load a color palette generated by an external program, you will need to generate a file
which the Animations editor can understand. See the color palette file format below for a
description of it.

Pasting colors
You can paste text specifying a color in to any of the color inputs to set the overall color. The text
can be in any of the following formats:
r, g, b

or r, g, b, a

rgb(r, g, b)

or rgba(r, g, b, a)

hsl(h, s, l)

or hsla(h, s, l, a)

Hex as either #ffffff or ffffff
Color components can be in the range 0% - 100% or 0 - 255. Alpha components should be
between 0 and 1.

Page 115 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Top toolbar: image tools
The top toolbar in the image pane provides tools that affect the entire image, such as mirroring
and flipping. The tools available are as follows.
Clear: resets the image to all transparent.
Open: import an image from a local file. Note you can also choose SVG files, but these will
be rastered in to a bitmap at a given size. The dropdown next to the main button also has an
option to load color palettes from JSON or zip files.
Save: export a copy of the current image. In the browser this downloads the current image
as a PNG file. You can use the dropdown next to the button to save the current animation or
all animations, bundled in a zip file. It is also possible to download the images with the
associated image point and collision polygon data. One of the dropdown options allows you
to save the current color palette to a JSON file, all the color palettes of the object type to a
zip file or all the color palettes of the project to a zip file.
Set export format: opens the Image Format dialog, allowing you choose whether the image
is saved as lossless (i.e. perfect quality) or lossy (i.e. allowing some quality reduction in order
to further reduce the file size) when the project is exported. The specific formats that these
mean are chosen when exporting - for example lossless images can be exported as either
PNG or WebP. This can also be applied to the current animation, or all animations. Note
Construct stores all images in the project in a lossless PNG format; images are only
converted on export.
Undo and Redo: step through the change history.
Cut, Copy, Paste: perform clipboard operations with the image.
Mirror and Flip: invert the image on one of its axes. Use the dropdown next to the button to
affect the entire animation.
Rotate anti-clockwise and Rotate clockwise: rotate the image in 90°. Use the dropdown next
to the button to affect the entire animation.
Crop: resize the image smaller to remove transparent space around the edges of the image.
This is a good idea to save memory. Note this leaves a 1px transparent border to improve the
image quality at the edges. Use the dropdown next to the button to affect the entire
animation or all the animations in the object type.
Resize: resize the current image. A dialog will open with options for the resize, including a
checkbox to apply the resize to the current animation or to all the animations in the object
type.
Zoom in, Zoom out, Reset zoom: adjust the zoom level in the image editor. Alternatively use
Control + mouse wheel.
Toggle background brightness: switch between a light and dark background for the image
editor. Changing to a dark background can be useful when editing very light images.
Toggle onion skin: Paid plans only display adjacent frames translucently over the current
image when editing an animation. This can help when drawing animations. The options are
Page 116 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

to display the previous frame, next and previous frames, or next and previous two frames
over the current image.
Grid: toggle the display of a grid over the current image. Use the dropdown next to the button
to adjust the grid settings, such as the grid size, color and whether to snap to the grid.
Preview: preview the currently selected animation.

Side toolbar: drawing tools
The side toolbar provides some tools for drawing in the image, as well as some extra Constructspecific tools for setting image points and adjusting the collision polygon. Some tools have extra
settings, such as the size for the brush tool, which appear underneath the top toolbar. The
following tools are available.
Rectangle select: select, move, delete, cut, copy and paste rectangle sections of the image.
Pencil: draw with a solid square, useful at 1px size for pixel art.
Brush: draw with a soft round brush.
Line: draw straight lines. Hold shift to lock the angle to 5° increments.
Rectangle: draw a rectangle in the image. The secondary color is used as a border. Hold shift
to draw a square.
Ellipse: draw an ellipse in the image. The secondary color is used as a border. Hold shift to
draw a circle.
Fill: fill a continuous area of the image with a color.
Eye dropper: select a color from the image. Alternatively hold Control and click with another
tool selected.
Image points: display and edit the origin and image points in the image. This switches the
color palette pane to a list of image points, allowing you to add and remove image points.
The origin determines the rotation point of the image, and is where the X and Y co-ordinates
of the object are aligned to. Image points can be used in the event system to refer to
alternative positions. For example you may place an image point at the end of a gun, so
spawned bullets can appear at the end of the gun barrel instead of at the origin.
Collision polygon: adjust the area that counts as colliding for this image. By default
Construct guesses a collision shape, but it is not always accurate. Click and drag the points
of the collision polygon to alter its shape. Right-click on a point or in a space to display a
menu of additional options for the collision polygon, such as adding and deleting points.
Some objects, like Tiled Background, do not use collision polygons.

Frames pane
The bottom pane displays a list of all frames in the current animation. Frames can be added and
deleted here. Select a frame to switch to editing its image. Frames can also be dragged and
dropped to adjust their sequence.

Page 117 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Selecting a frame shows a few properties in the properties pane:
Index: the 0 based index of the currently selected frame, this property is for feedback only
and can not be edited through the properties pane.
Duration: is a multiplier for the amount of time to spend on the frame. For example, a frame
duration of 2 will spend twice as long on that animation frame, 0.5 half as long, etc. relative
to the current animation speed.
Tag: a string to identify this animation frame at runtime.
Right-click a frame to duplicate or delete it.
Right-click in an empty space in the pane to see additional options for managing the animation,
which include:
Add frame: add a new empty frame at the end of the animation
Duplicate last: add a new frame which is a copy of the last frame in the animation
Reverse frames: invert the sequence of frames in the animation
Import frames
From files: add multiple animation frames by selecting a set of local image files to
import
From sheet: add multiple animation frames by selecting a local image file with multiple
images placed on it (often called a sprite strip), and cutting it up in to individual images. A
dialog shows up when selecting this option which allows to choose how the source
image should be sliced and which images to extract from it.
You can also adjust the size of the frame icons appearing in the pane by adjusting the
Thumbnail size.

Animations and properties panes
The right side of the Animations Editor shows the Animations pane, where animations can be
added, edited and deleted. Right click a space to add a new animation or add a subfolder to
organise animations. Right click an animation to see options like Preview, which shows how the
animation will look in the game. You can also Find all references Paid plans only for an
animation to locate all its references in events.
Right-click in an empty space in the animations pane to see a few context menu options, of
note are:
Import animations
From files: allows you to select multiple files to be added to a new animation. Also
supports choosing zip files containing multiple images. In that case, a new animation is
created for each zip file and each image found in the zip is added as a new frame of the
corresponding animation. If the zip file contains a c3-import-settings.json file, it will

Page 118 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

affect the animation creation accordingly. See the Bulk Importing section for more
information on that.
From sheet: shows a dialog that allows to extract multiple animations from a local image
file.
Selecting an animation also switches which frames are showing in the frames pane, and
displays settings for the animation in the Properties pane. The following properties are available
for animations.
Name: the name of the animation. This can also be directly edited in the Animations pane.
Speed: the rate at which to play the animation, in animation frames per second. For example
if set to 5, each frame will last 1/5th of a second. Note this cannot be faster than the game
framerate, which is typically 60. Set to 0 if you do not want the animation to play, which is
useful if you want to control which frame is showing by events. You can also use negative
speeds, which causes the animation to play backwards. Note in this case repeating
animations should set the Repeat to frame at the end of the animation, otherwise by default
it repeats to frame 0 (the start of the animation), causing the animation to stop after playing
in reverse.
Loop: enable to infinitely repeat the animation.
Repeat count: if the animation is not looping, the number of times to repeat the animation.
Repeat to: the zero-based index of the animation frame to go back to when the animation
loops or repeats.
Ping pong: play the animation alternately forwards and backwards when looping or
repeating.

Image points pane
When you select the Image points tool in the image editor, the left pane switches to a list of
image points for the current animation frame.

The Origin is a special kind of image point defining the center of the object, or its point of
rotation. It has a different icon to denote it. The term image point usually means "image points
including the origin". Image points have a zero based index, and the first image point (number 0)
is always the origin. The origin cannot be renamed.

Page 119 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

You can also add additional image points. These are useful to create spawn points for other
objects. Since you can create objects at image points in events, it is often useful to place an
image point in places like the end of the player's gun in the image. Image points can also be
given a name, and referred to in events by this name.

Editing image points
Select an image point in the list and a corresponding point will appear on the image. Left click
to place the point under the mouse. The arrow keys can also nudge it 1 pixel in each direction.
An image point can be quickly placed using the num pad, e.g. 7 for the top-left corner or 5 for
centered. Alternatively the image point can be right clicked in the Image Points pane and an
option chosen from the quick assign menu.
Right clicking an image point in the Image Points pane also provides options to:
Apply to whole animation: sets the image point in the same relative place in all frames in the
current animation.
Apply to all animations: sets the image point in the same relative place in all frames in all the
animations of the object type.
Apply to all animations in subfolder: sets the image point in the same relative place in all
frames in all the animations in the same subfolder as the current animation.
If an image point does not exist in all frames, these options also creates it. Holding shift while
placing the image point is a shortcut for Apply to whole animation.

Drag-and-drop
There are various ways you can import images by drag-and-drop in to the Animations Editor
window.

Into main image pane
An image file can be dropped in to the main image editing pane to replace the content of the
current frame with the dropped image file. This works the same way as using the Open button
on the top toolbar.

Frames pane
Dropping a single image file in to the Frames pane will prompt you asking how the image should
be treated. The image can be treated as a plain image file, in which case the image is added as a
new frame in the current animation. This works the same way as the context menu option
Import►From files. The image can also be treated as a sprite sheet, which works the same way