# Manual Construct 3  Parte 9 (líneas 960110800)

## Resumen
- Creating reference nodes (línea 9)
- To create a reference node in a flowchart, open a Flowchart View for it from the Project Bar and (línea 10)
- then right-click in any empty space of the Flowchart View and select the Add reference node (línea 11)
- option from the context menu. Doing that will create a node at the position of the pointer. (línea 12)
- For more information on further editing of nodes, see the Flowchart View section of the manual. (línea 13)
- Node properties (línea 15)
- Tags (línea 16)
- A string used to identify a node at runtime. Multiple different tags can be assigned by (línea 18)
- separating them with a space. The Flowchart Controller plugin has several actions, (línea 19)
- conditions and expressions that can be used with one or multiple tags to target specific (línea 20)
- nodes. (línea 21)
- Enable (línea 22)
- A boolean property indicating if the reference node is enabled or not. A disabled node is (línea 24)
- ignored at runtime and the flowchart state will not go past it. (línea 25)
- Reference flowchart (línea 26)
- The flowchart that should be created upon reaching this node. (línea 28)
- Reference start node (línea 29)
- The tags of the node that should visited in the referenced flowchart. The first node found (línea 31)
- that matches all passed tags will be used as the starting position of the flowchart. If left (línea 32)
- empty the default start node set in the editor is used. (línea 33)

## Contenido

it's necessary for unique portions of a larger flowchart to be available individually.

Creating reference nodes
To create a reference node in a flowchart, open a Flowchart View for it from the Project Bar and
then right-click in any empty space of the Flowchart View and select the Add reference node
option from the context menu. Doing that will create a node at the position of the pointer.
For more information on further editing of nodes, see the Flowchart View section of the manual.

Node properties
Tags

A string used to identify a node at runtime. Multiple different tags can be assigned by
separating them with a space. The Flowchart Controller plugin has several actions,
conditions and expressions that can be used with one or multiple tags to target specific
nodes.
Enable

A boolean property indicating if the reference node is enabled or not. A disabled node is
ignored at runtime and the flowchart state will not go past it.
Reference flowchart

The flowchart that should be created upon reaching this node.
Reference start node

The tags of the node that should visited in the referenced flowchart. The first node found
that matches all passed tags will be used as the starting position of the flowchart. If left
empty the default start node set in the editor is used.

Page 316 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Runtime tag

The tag given to the referenced flowchart at runtime to be able to identify it. This is
analogous to the tag a flowchart can be given when it is instantiated through the Flowchart
Controller's Start flowchart action. If left empty a unique tag is assigned.
Caption

An editor-only property. This is an optional name that can be given to a reference node to
help distinguish it from others.
Color

An editor-only property. This is an optional color that will be applied to the border of the
node.
Parent Index

In the case a node is connected to multiple parent nodes, this property appears and displays
an index that can be given to each parent. Used by some actions and expressions in the case
a node has more than one parent.

Page 317 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

COMMENT NODE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/flowcharts/comment-node

The comment node is a secondary type of node that can be added to a flowchart.
Unlike regular nodes, which represent a state and can have information, these are meant to be
used exclusively as notes to describe what is going on in a certain part of a flowchart and have
no impact at runtime.

Creating comment nodes
To create a comment node in a flowchart, open a Flowchart View for it from the Project Bar and
then right-click in any empty space of the Flowchart View and select the Add comment node
option from the context menu. Doing that will create a node at the position of the pointer.
For more information on further editing of nodes, see the Flowchart View section of the manual.

Main comment
The main body of the node is a text box that can be clicked on to write in it.
Comment nodes can overlap with other nodes and are always shown below nodes which
have a logical purpose in the flowchart.

Node properties
Caption

An editor-only property. This is an optional name that can be given to a reference node to
help distinguish it from others.
Color

An editor-only property. This is an optional color that will be applied to the border of the
node.
Font

An editor-only property. The font to use for the main comment.
Size

Page 318 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

An editor-only property. The size of the font used in the main comment.
Bold

An editor-only property. Formats the main comment text to be bold.
Italic

An editor-only property. Formats the main comment text to be italic.
Font color

An editor-only property. The color of the main comment text.

Page 319 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SOUNDS AND MUSIC
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/sounds-andmusic

Sounds and Music in Construct are audio files. Any audio files the project uses will be exported
with the project. To ensure your audio can be played across a wide range of platforms, Construct
will encode them to WebM Opus when importing, if possible. It is recommended to import 16-bit
PCM WAV files to ensure they can be encoded without any unnecessary quality loss.
Imported audio files can be previewed by double-clicking them in the Project Bar. This will open
an audio player that you can use to listen to the audio file.
To import and play back audio in a project, follow these steps:
1

Import sounds by right-clicking the Sounds or Music folders in the Project Bar and selecting
Import sounds or Import music.

2

Import audio via the Import Audio dialog.

3

Add the Audio object to the project and add events to play back audio.

For more information on audio support in Construct, see the Import Audio dialog.
Note that when publishing to the web, you must ensure your server has the correct MIME types
set up to ensure audio files can load correctly. If the server sends the wrong MIME types, audio
may not play in some browsers.

Page 320 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PROJECT FILES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/files

Any external files can also be imported to your project via the Project Bar. This is useful for
including any other resources your project might need, such as videos, additional images,
JSON/XML/CSV/text data, HTML, CSS, documents, or other general files you might need in your
project. Often project files are requested in events with the AJAX object, allowing data files to be
read by the game.
Project files (excluding sounds and music) can be categorised in to folders for Videos, Fonts,
Icons (see Icons & splash) and Files (for anything that does not belong to one of the other
folders). Files can be imported by right-clicking one of the folders in the Project Bar and
selecting the Import option. Note importing files copies them to the project.

Previewing files
Several kinds of files can be previewed simply by double-clicking their item in the Project Bar:
Like sounds and music, previewing a video file will play it in a video player.
Fonts preview in a dialog showing some sample text using the font.
SVG images are previewed in a resizable dialog that displays the image.
Other images than SVG can be opened in the Animations Editor for viewing and editing. This
is particularly useful with icon files.
Array, dictionary and text-based files can be viewed and edited in the Array editor, Dictionary
editor and Text editor respectively Paid plans only.
Other text-based files, like HTML and CSS files, can also be edited with a built-in text editor by
double-clicking them Paid plans only.

Using Web Fonts
You can use any web font (.woff or .woff2) files imported to the Fonts folder in Text objects. For
more information see the section on Using web fonts in the Text object.

Adding new files
Paid plans only When right-clicking the general-purpose Files folder, there is also a New
submenu which provides a range of common kinds of file that you might want to add to the
project.

Page 321 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Adding a new project file

Adding an Array adds a JSON file in a format that can be loaded by the Array object, and opens
the Array editor. Adding a Dictionary adds a JSON file that can be loaded by the Dictionary
object, and opens the Dictionary editor. Each allows the data in the files to be edited in a visual
editor. The other files open a Text editor for editing the contents of the file. Once added, doubleclick the file in the Project Bar to re-open its editor.

Adding HTML files
Paid plans only HTML files can be added to the project, and edited with a built-in text editor. This
is useful for writing long HTML content to be displayed in the HTML Element object. The content
can then be fetched using the AJAX object, and then set as the content of the HTML Element.
HTML project files can also have a Purpose set in the Properties Bar. This allows using them to
insert content in to the exported HTML file. If the file is used this way, it will no longer be
exported as an additional file. The possible purposes are:
(none): the HTML file will not be automatically used anywhere. It will be exported as an
additional file.
End of <head>: the contents of the HTML file will be inserted just before </head> in the
exported HTML.
Start of <body>: the contents of the HTML file will be inserted just after <body> in the
exported HTML.
End of <body>: the contents of the HTML file will be inserted just before </body> in the
exported HTML.

Adding stylesheets
Paid plans only Stylesheets, using the CSS file extension (short for Cascading Style Sheet), can
be added to the project and edited with a built-in text editor. This is particularly useful for
customising the appearance of the HTML Element object.
Custom CSS files are also useful for customising the appearance of other HTML-based objects
like Button and Text Input. These objects have ID and Class properties which can be used to
Page 322 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

identify them so custom styles can be applied from stylesheets.
Construct sets a CSS variable named --construct-scale on the root html element of the
document, with a number representing the canvas scale as a multiplier. You can use this to
scale CSS properties to match the displayed canvas size. For example height: calc(var(-construct-scale) * 2em); sets a height size of 2em at 100% scale, but also adjusts the
height to follow Construct's fullscreen scaling.
CSS files have a Purpose property in the Properties Bar. The default is Stylesheet which means
Construct will use it as an additional stylesheet for your project. The purpose can also be set to
(none) in which case its styles will not automatically be applied, and the stylesheet will merely be
exported as an additional file on export. This may be useful if the stylesheet is needed for other
purposes, such as for the content of an iframe.

MIME types
When publishing to the web, you must ensure the server hosting the project has the correct
MIME types set up for all the kinds of project file you use. Otherwise some project files may fail
to load, or could be loaded with corrupted data.

Page 323 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

COMMON CONVENTIONS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/tips-and-guides/commonconventions

For consistency, Construct usually uses some common conventions in how values are used.
These are described below.

Common units
In Construct, sometimes you need to enter values such as angles, speeds or sizes. For
consistency these always use the same units in Construct, except where noted by descriptions
or tips shown in the editor. The common units are described below.
Positions are in pixels. The origin (0,0) is at the top-left of the layout, and the Y axis
increments downwards (as is often the case with game engines).
Sizes are in pixels
Angles are in degrees. 0 degrees faces right and increments clockwise.
Times are in seconds
Speeds are in pixels per second
Accelerations are in pixels per second per second

Zero-based indexing
To be consistent with programming languages, all features of Construct using a number of an
item in a list (indices) start from 0 instead of 1. This might seem odd at first and take some
getting used to, but in many cases it is actually much more convenient than 1-based indexing.
Traditionally lists are numbered 1, 2, 3... but in Construct (and all other programming languages)
they are numbered 0, 1, 2....

Ranges
Sometimes the documentation will refer to ranges of valid values. These are in square brackets
for an inclusive range, such as [0, 1] meaning any value between 0 and 1, including both 0 and 1.
For example valid values in this range are 0, 0.5, and 1. A round bracket indicates a non-inclusive
boundary of the range, such as [0, 1) meaning any value between 0 and 1, including 0 but not
including 1. For example valid values in this range are 0, 0.5 and 0.999, but not 1.

Page 324 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

BEST PRACTICES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/tips-and-guides/best-practices

Back up regularly!
Neither the hardware nor software in your computer is perfect. Computers fail and software can
crash. Back up your projects to protect yourself from losing work. It is essential to also maintain
off-site backups. If all your backups are in the same computer or saved to disks all in the same
building, catastrophic events like fire, flood, theft, software/hardware failure, or cyber
attacks/related malware like ransomware, can all cause you to lose all your work and backups
together.
Cloud Save is a good way to save your work where it is safe in case of disaster. However it is
wise to keep secondary backups anyway, in case you lose access to your account, or the service
has an outage or even shuts down. Keeping additional backups is particularly important when
saving to local files or folders on your system. Construct can help you do this by automatically
making backups. See the Save & backup section of the Settings dialog. Check Periodically back
up active project, and choose the location and backup interval. For example you could set up an
automatic save to the same location as the project every 10 minutes, or select a local backup
folder (where supported by the browser) to save backups to.
Saving an extra copy to a local backup folder isn't a safe backup when using local file/folder
saves: it's just another copy on the same system, and any disaster that renders the system
inaccessible will cause you to lose both your work and its backups. It's best to use this
option if you're already using Cloud Save (so there's a secondary copy on your system), or if
the local folder is automatically copied to the cloud (such as a local Dropbox folder which
will automatically upload all files in the folder to your cloud account).
The advice to back up regularly is not specific to Construct. It is vital to adopt this practice for
any work on a computer which is important to you. Do not wait until you've lost work before
starting to do this. People lose work regularly from having poor backup practices. Don't be one of
them!

Test on multiple platforms, browsers and devices
It is essential to test your project works as intended across a range of different systems. While
Construct exports are based on the HTML5 standard which in theory is implemented the same
on all platforms, in practice there are variations between browsers and devices (e.g. in
performance, features, text rendering, etc). You should install a range of browsers on every
device you have available and test with them all to ensure your project will work well for
everyone. Remote Preview Paid plans only can help with this, especially since you can get
anyone in the world to help test with their devices. You may also need to make test exports to
Page 325 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

check how your project works as published, since app containers like Cordova (for Android and
iOS) can have differences too.

Support touchscreen devices
Many users browse the web with touchscreen devices. Where applicable, you should design your
project to also support touch input. Often you can simply use the Touch plugin instead of the
Mouse plugin.

Avoid superseded features
Some features exist mainly for backwards compatibility reasons and should be avoided in new
projects in favor of newer features that essentially replace them. See Superseded features for a
list of such features to avoid.

Recommended file formats
You may wish to prepare artwork and audio in other software before importing to Construct.
These are the formats we recommend.

Images
Use 32-bit PNG (Portable Network Graphics) while preparing images. Be sure to select 32-bit if
you are given a choice; the 8-bit or lower versions may degrade quality. 32-bit PNGs are lossless
and fully support alpha-channel transparency. Note some images such as Microsoft Paint do not
support PNG transparency. Use may need to use a different editor instead, such as Paint.NET on
Windows.
You can choose different export formats like JPEG or WebP inside Construct to reduce the size
of your finished project. However when importing you should still stick to 32-bit PNGs if possible,
and leave Construct to recompress them when exporting. Construct does a lot of optimisation
on export for you. It is unlikely that any third party tools or services will be able to beat
Construct's existing lossless optimisations, unless they degrade the image quality. Remember
there is no point optimising images before importing them to Construct since it stores them in
projects as 32-bit PNGs with default compression settings; they are only optimised on export.

Audio
Use 16-bit PCM WAV while preparing audio. These are typically .wav files, but note that not all
.wav files are 16-bit PCM. Importing a 16-bit PCM .wav file to Construct will automatically
encode it to WebM Opus. PCM WAV files are lossless, ensuring there is no quality degradation
while you prepare your audio files. Allowing Construct to perform the encoding ensures the
encoding is only done once (so there is no unnecessary degradation), and that the correct
format is used for support across a wide range of platforms.

Fonts

Page 326 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Use fonts in WOFF (Web Open Font Format) format wherever possible. Fonts in other formats
such as TTF may or may not work depending on specific details of browser support and the
features used in the font file. WOFF was designed specifically for web browsers and so is the
best supported format for web-based technology such as Construct.

Security
Never enter usernames or passwords in to events. These will be visible in plain text in exported
Javascript, and malicious users will very quickly be able to take control of the account. If you
need to connect to something like a database, write a server-side script that talks to the
database, then connect to the URL of the server.

Performance
Many people worry about performance but just end up wasting their time. There is a specific
way that you ought to approach performance questions and issues - see the guide on
Performance Tips for more about that.

Memory use
Sometimes people accidentally create projects that waste large amounts of memory due to not
understanding the way things like imags are handled in memory. See the guide on Memory
usage for more about that.

Download size
It's a good idea to at least check your project's download size, and try to reduce the size of any
particularly large files. This can be important for platforms that impose a file size limit, or for
people who have slow connections. See the guide on Download size for more about that.

Page 327 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PERSISTING BROWSER STORAGE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/tips-and-guides/persistingbrowser-storage

Construct asks the browser to store various kinds of information to ensure it persists across
sessions. This includes:
Your account login
The list of recent projects
The user interface layout
Your chosen settings
Installed third-party addons
Saving Construct itself for use offline
Saved large downloads so they don't have to be downloaded again every session
Many more details
If your browser refuses to save this data to storage, or regularly clears it, then you may
experience problems like your account login being forgotten, your recent projects being cleared,
the user interface and your chosen settings resetting, installed addons becoming uninstalled,
and so on.
To fix this, you usually need to adjust your browser settings, as it is the browser that is causing
your data to be lost rather than Construct. This guide covers a range of possible causes and
solutions for this kind of problem.

Privacy, tracking or cookie settings
Some websites abuse storage for things like unauthorized tracking of users. Also, many
countries around the world have increasingly strict regulation of data management. Therefore
most modern browsers have comprehensive settings to control what websites are allowed to do
to preserve privacy and mitigate unwanted tracking. However some settings could prevent
Construct from being able to store data persistently.
Check your browser settings to see if you've changed something that is blocking Construct from
storing data. These settings could relate to privacy, anti-tracking, storage, or "cookies" (a general
term for any data stored by websites on your device). For example if you have a setting that
clears all cookies every 7 days, then it's possible everything Construct has remembered will be
reset every 7 days.

Browser extensions
Page 328 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Some browser extensions provide additional privacy, tracking or data control. Similar to browser
settings, be sure to check any browser extension settings relating to privacy, anti-tracking,
cookies or storage. For example if you have a browser extension that only allows specific
websites to permanently store data, then you would need to add Construct to the list to allow it
to persist its storage. Alternatively you could uninstall the browser extension to see if that solves
the problem.

Manually clearing browser data
It's worth noting that manually clearing browser data may also clear Construct's saved data. As
above, choosing to clear "cookies" or "site data" may cause everything Construct has saved to be
deleted. You may need to carefully choose what categories of data to clear, or just avoid
manually clearing browser data unless you're willing to also reset Construct.

Private browsing modes
Most modern browsers provide a special private browsing mode for privacy reasons. These
modes by design do not remember anything after you close the private browsing window.
Therefore if you use a private browsing window, Construct will always act as if it is the first time
you are running it, with no login, default settings, and so on.

Request persistent storage
Something that may help Construct remember data permanently is to request permission for
persistent storage. In Construct choose Menu►About to open the About dialog, and find the
Local storage section. This shows how much storage Construct is using and the available
storage quota, as reported by the browser. Where supported by the browser, there may also be a
Request persistent storage link, with text reporting the current persistence state (e.g. "Browser
may not persist storage"). Click the Request persistent storage link to ask the browser to persist
Construct's storage. You may see a permission prompt, so be sure to approve that. If it works,
the status text should change to read "Browser will persist storage".
Note that this still does not provide a guarantee that data will be held permanently. It is still
possible that things like manually clearing data, browser extensions, or running out of disk
space, may cause the data to be lost anyway. However this generally improves the chance that
Construct's data will be able to persist long term.

System storage running out
If your system is running out of disk space, sometimes browsers respond by starting to erase
website data. This can cause Construct's data to be lost as well.
As described above, requesting persistent storage may help avoid this - the browser should start
by erasing other website's data first. However if the system runs out of storage space repeatedly,
it may end up deleting Construct's saved data anyway.

Page 329 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Construct's Storage Cleanup dialog can help free up space used by Construct without having to
clear everything like your settings and login. Sometimes things like saved exported projects,
downloaded example projects, and some export options, can end up using a lot of data. So if you
are running low on disk space, try using that dialog to reduce the storage space Construct is
using. You can also try general-purpose methods to save on disk space, such as using any
system storage cleanup tool, uninstalling unused apps, deleting unnecessary files, and so on.

Try another browser
If all else fails, you can try using a different browser. In general most modern browsers with their
default settings should be able to persistently remember data that Construct saves.

Page 330 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PERFORMANCE TIPS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/tips-and-guides/performancetips

This section covers some general performance tips. Many people unnecessarily waste time
when thinking about performance. This guide is aimed at a practical approach so you only
investigate performance where it matters. There's also some general advice on common
problems and pitfalls to avoid.

Modern computers are fast
Many people underestimate just how powerful modern computers are. Modern hardware,
operating systems, browsers, and Construct itself, are all exceptionally fast and well-optimized.
Many projects will have excellent performance at the end even if you never put any effort in to
improving performance. That's a good thing - it means you can spend your precious time making
your project better rather than trying to figure out how to improve performance. Sometimes
people try to improve performance before there's even a problem, which usually means you are
just wasting your time. That includes questions like "which is faster, A or B?" - usually the answer
is "it doesn't matter at all and you're wasting your time".

Regularly test on target devices
If you are previewing your project on a high-end gaming PC, it is likely to be able to handle highintensity content that would slow to a crawl on weaker devices. That might be OK for a PC game
intended for other gamers, but be too slow for content designed for typical consumer devices.
For this reason it is still important to regularly test your project on the kinds of devices you
expect a typical player will use, to make sure you can identify any problems before publishing.
The sooner you can identify a performance problem, the more likely you are to know what
change caused it. The worst case scenario is to finish an entire project without testing, then find
it's too slow, in which case you may have no idea why (although measurements can help, as
described later). As noted previously you may find everything is running smoothly all the way
through development, which is a great outcome, but it's best to be sure!
In the past, mobile devices used to have significantly worse performance to desktops and would
often need special consideration for performance. However many modern high-end mobile
devices are now about as powerful as mid-range laptops, and are likely to handle most kinds of
Construct content fine as well. If you want to target particularly low-power budget devices, you
may need to take special care though. Either way, as noted, have a target device to hand and
regularly test on it so you can be sure!

Measure, measure, measure
There is only one way to get a good answer about a performance question: measure it. If you
don't measure it, or you guess, or you ask on the forum (so someone else guesses), you may get
Page 331 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

an inaccurate answer, and you may end up wasting your time trying to optimise something that
makes no difference at all to performance. You must use measurements and be scientific about
proving what makes a difference.
The ultimate performance measurement is the frames per second (FPS). If the FPS rate is good,
there is no need to optimise anything! Don't waste your time. If it's not good enough and your
project is running slowly, the key measurements to look at are the CPU and GPU utilisation. You
can find all these measurements in Construct's debugger Paid plans only.

CPU vs. GPU
There are two major tasks to running a Construct project: running the logic, including all your
event sheets, JavaScript code, and behaviors - done by the CPU (Central Processing Unit) - and
drawing the graphics, including visual effects, done by the GPU (Graphics Processing Unit).
Usually these are two different pieces of hardware (or different components even if on the same
chip).
If the CPU measurement is very high, you probably need to optimise the project logic. If the GPU
measurement is very high, you probably need to optimise rendering. So these measurements will
guide your overall approach.
In both cases, once again, the key is to make measurements. Be scientific: try making a change,
and see how it affects the key performance measurements. If it doesn't make a difference, the
change doesn't matter to performance. If you make the right change, you will see a measurable
difference. This is also how you answer "which is faster, A or B?" type questions: try both and
measure them. (Often you will find no measurable difference!)
The following sections provide some tips about how to track down the cause of a meaningful
performance problem that you've identified, and some of the common culprits.

CPU performance
The CPU is generally responsible for everything except drawing graphics. Event sheets,
JavaScript code, plugins, behaviors, and everything else apart from graphics tend to happen on
the CPU.
The best place to start looking to identify a CPU performance problem is the CPU profiler Paid
plans only in Construct's debugger. This can break down CPU time spent in different areas,
including individual event groups in event sheets. If you see an item measuring a particularly
high usage, that is generally the item to think about optimising. For example you may see a
single event group using a substantial percentage of CPU time by itself. If you look at that event
group you may then find it does something like repeat an event thousands of times; adjusting
that to do less work could then solve the problem.
Other times it may be less clear, such as time spent processing behaviors. Here are some
general tips about the types of things that can cause high CPU usage. As before the way to
check for these is to rely on measurements: try removing them, or significantly reducing their
usage, and see what difference it makes to the measurements.
Page 332 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Physics behavior: physics simulations are highly CPU intensive. Using a relatively small
number of objects with the Physics behavior should be manageable. However if you use
thousands of objects with the Physics behavior it could cause a considerable slowdown.
Creating too many objects: while modern computers and software are very fast, everything
has a cost, even if small. Creating thousands of objects can significantly increase the CPU
usage, depending on what kind of logic your event sheets, code, and behaviors run.
Using too many particles: while a single particle is even cheaper than an object, it is still not
free. Like creating too many objects, having too many particles could also cause high CPU
usage.
Running too many events: if you have a very large project with thousands of events, those
events will all need to be run, which may end up with a significant processing overhead.
Usually most of the events don't need to be checked all the time. You can significantly reduce
the number of events that need to be run by organising them in to event groups, and
disabling the groups that are not currently needed. (Events in disabled groups are skipped
entirely.) Sub-events can perform a similar role, as sub-events are only checked if the parent
event is true.
Using too many loops: using too many loops like For, For Each and Repeat can cause the
project to slow down if used intensively. Nested loops are especially likely to cause this, as it
quickly multiplies the number of iterations run. To test if this is the problem, try temporarily
disabling the looping events.

GPU performance
The GPU is generally responsible solely for drawing graphics - that is, rendering your artwork to
the screen, as well as any effects.
The best place to start looking to identify a GPU performance problem is the GPU profiler Paid
plans only in Construct's debugger. This can break down GPU time spent on each layer in the
project. If one layer is showing a high measurement, it is likely the graphics content on that layer
that is responsible for the high GPU usage. For example you may see a layer using hundreds of
objects all with effects showing a high measurement; removing the effects or reducing the
object count could then solve the problem.
Fill rate
A key point to understand about GPU performance is the fill rate. Drawing pixels on the screen
(also known as "filling in" pixels) requires writing them to memory. Drawing more images, and
larger images, requires writing more pixels to memory. The data rate of writing all this pixel data
to memory is called the fill rate. Once the fill rate exceeds the GPU memory bandwidth (the rate
at which data can be written), the project will start to slow down as the GPU cannot keep up.
Note this is a hardware limitation, not a limitation in Construct or any other software on your
device.
To fully understand fill rate, it's important to also know that Construct renders projects back-tofront. This means it starts by drawing the background (the objects lowest down in Z order) and
Page 333 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

progressively drawing everything else on top until it reaches the front. Since the objects at the
top of Z order are drawn last, they appear on top. However when objects overlap, this involves
writing to the same pixels repeatedly. This is called overdraw and it still uses up fill rate, i.e. the
object underneath still consumes memory bandwidth, even though it is later covered up by
something on top. Therefore the worst-case scenario for fill rate is a stack of large overlapping
images.
There are a couple more points to consider about fill rate:
1

Transparent areas of images still use up fill rate. In other words, transparent pixels are still
rendered, they simply have no visual effect.

2

Layers which use their own texture (indicated by Uses own texture in the Properties Bar) must be
copied to the screen after the layer finishes rendering. This means every layer that uses its own
texture is equivalent to rendering a screen-sized sprite that covers up everything. Having too
many layers which use their own texture can quickly use up your available fill rate.

In short, the more pixels that are drawn on the screen, the more work there is for the GPU to do.
This includes transparent pixels, overlapping images, and "own texture" layers.
GPU performance tips
Here are some general tips about the types of things that can cause slow rendering
performance. As before the way to check for these is to rely on measurements: try removing
them, or significantly reducing their usage, and see what difference it makes to the
measurements.
Avoid objects with large areas of transparency. Crop all images you use to remove wasteful
transparent space. (This also saves memory!) Split up large objects with large transparent
areas in to a series of smaller objects. For example, adding a window border using a screensized transparent sprite with borders drawn at the edges will perform poorly as it still has to
fill a large transparent area in the middle. Splitting it in to four separate objects for each edge
is much more efficient since a smaller area is rendered.
Avoid large areas of overlap between objects. The overlapped area will have the pixels
rendered to repeatedly, which wastes fill rate.
Avoid too many layers which use their own texture. Enabling Force own texture, changing
the opacity or blend mode, or adding an effect, all cause the layer to render to its own
texture, which uses a lot of fill rate. While this is necessary in some cases to get the visual
effect you want, avoid doing it too many times with layers in the same layout.
Avoid using too many effects. While effects can be visually impressive, adding lots of them
to layers or objects can significantly increase the amount of rendering work for the GPU.
Certain types of effects are also more performance intensive than others. If you have lots of
objects all with the same effect, experiment with having the objects on a layer with a layer
effect, or having the effect on the individual objects; sometimes one approach can be more
efficient than the other.

Page 334 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Unnecessary use of effects. Never use effects to process a static effect on an object. For
example, do not use the Grayscale effect to make an object always appear grayscale. This
will degrade performance when you could simply import a grayscale image to the object and
not use any effects at all.
No hardware acceleration. In some cases, the GPU may not be used at all, and then the CPU
is forced to perform all rendering work, which is usually much slower. This is usually caused
by a system-level problem, such as out-of-date hardware or software, or broken graphics
drivers. It can also be affected by browser settings (e.g. turning off "Use hardware
acceleration"). You can check the hardware-acceleration status in Chrome by visiting
chrome://gpu in the address bar. You should see WebGL listed as Hardware accelerated in
green. Construct supports both WebGL and WebGL 2; it is sufficient if either is hardware
accelerated, since Construct will pick that one.

Interpreting performance measurements
An important caveat to note about Construct's performance measurements is that the CPU and
GPU measurements are based on timers. This makes them subject to variance due to hardware
power management, which both CPUs and GPUs use.
To understand how power management affects timer measurements, consider a modern
processor that can run in a low-power mode that is half as fast. In full power mode a task might
take 5ms to complete. However if not under significant load, it will switch in to the low-power
mode not only to save power (especially important for battery-powered devices), but also to
avoid overheating the chip. In this mode the task will then take 10ms to complete. As Construct's
measurements are based on timers, this means it will look like it is taking up twice as much
processor time. However it is not a true reflection of the usage of the processor's full capacity.
Modern processor power management schemes are much more complicated than this, often
involving many power modes that have different trade-offs between power usage and
performance, and they constantly switch between them depending on the system load and
temperature measurements. However the point remains that timer-based measurements can
vary in unexpected ways due to power management. This can result in some unusual
measurements, especially in low-power modes (when the system is mostly idle) - you might see
things like the usage measurements suddenly dropping as the amount of work increases, which
is actually due to the processor stepping up in to a higher power mode. The CPU and GPU usage
measurements can be helpful for solving performance problems, but remember they are not
perfectly accurate. In particular they are not reliable for "micro-benchmarking", such as testing
which of two small tests are faster, as the measurements will mostly reflect the hardware power
mode. It's another reason to not try to optimise performance until you have identified a real
problem!
It's also worth noting Construct's measurements are only for your project, and the CPU
measurement is only for the main thread (i.e. a single core). They are not system-wide
measurements, and can be affected by other activity on the system. The CPU measurement
does not measure other work done on background threads, which can also be significant in
some cases, but usually does not directly contribute to the framerate.

Page 335 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Remember the framerate (FPS) is the ultimate performance measurement: as long as the
framerate is good, then the overall performance is OK. The other measurements are there to help
you diagnose what the problem might be when the framerate is dropping.

Displaying performance at runtime
While Construct's debugger displays key performance measurements, sometimes it's useful to
show these in the project itself, such as for testing with Remote Preview Paid plans only or in
exported projects.
The following three system expressions provide basic performance measurements.
fps - returns the current frames per second rate. The maximum framerate depends on the
display refresh rate, which is commonly 60.
CPUutilisation - returns the current estimated CPU usage, ranging from 0 to 1. The
expression round(cpuutilisation * 100) will return a percentage. Note this is subject to the
caveats under Interpreting performance measurements.
GPUutilisation - returns the current estimated GPU usage, ranging from 0 to 1. The
expression round(gpuutilisation * 100) will return a percentage. Note this measurement
may not be available on some devices (in which case it will say NaN, which stands for Not A
Number). This is also subject to the caveats under Interpreting performance measurements.
You can create an in-project display of these values with a Text object to keep an eye on
performance while testing your project, using an action to update it Every tick:
Set text to fps & " FPS, " & round(cpuutilisation * 100) & "% CPU, " & round(gpuutilisation
* 100) & "% GPU"

This will display a string like 60 FPS, 30% CPU, 40% GPU indicating the framerate and
approximate CPU and GPU usage.

Common misconceptions
The following things are often accused of affecting performance but usually have little or no
effect.
Off-screen objects are not still rendered. Construct does not issue draw calls for objects that
do not appear in the window, and the GPU is also smart enough to know not to render any
content that appears outside the window - even when a single image is only partially onscreen.
Image formats (e.g. JPEG, PNG or WebP) affect the download size but have no effect on
runtime performance or memory use. All images are decompressed to 32-bit bitmap on
startup.
Audio formats also only affect the download size but have no effect on runtime performance.

Page 336 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Number of layers usually has no effect. Layers which use their own texture have a
performance overhead, as described above. However a layer with the default settings does
not use its own texture, and has no performance overhead by itself. You can use as many of
these layers as you like.
Number of layouts also is unlikely to have any effect on performance. The layout size also
does not have any direct effect; larger layouts do not use more memory or require more
processing, unless you use more objects.
Angle or opacity of objects and floating-point positions (e.g. positioning a sprite at X = 10.5)
generally has no effect, since modern graphics chips are very good at handling this, even on
weak devices. Using lots of very large sprites can still sometimes cause a slowdown - see
the section on fill rate.

Summary
In short, here are the key points when considering performance:
Regularly test on target devices.
Don't attempt to optimise the project if it's fast enough. You'll just be wasting your time.
If it's not fast enough, rely on measurements to guide your optimisation.
Frames per second (FPS) is the ultimate measurement. CPU and GPU usage are timer-based
approximations and are mainly to help you make performance measurements to guide
optimisation.

Page 337 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

MEMORY USAGE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/tips-and-guides/memory-usage

Managing the amount of memory used is important to ensure a wide range of devices can run
your project. If a project uses more memory than is available on a particular device, it may crash
due to running out of memory. Reducing memory use can also in some cases improve
performance.

Images
Usually object images (including sprite animations) are the most memory-consuming part of a
project. For this reason Construct estimates the peak memory use from images and displays it
in the Project Statistics dialog. (Right click the project name in the Project Bar and select
Tools►View project statistics to view the dialog.) You should check this from time-to-time while
developing your project, but it should only be regarded as an estimate. The debugger can also
show the image memory usage during runtime, but note that it can vary depending on what is
happening in your game. Remember this measurement is only for images, so your project will
need at least that much memory to run.
Some tips to ensure the image memory usage remains reasonable are:
1

Crop all animation frames. Transparent pixels still use up memory. If you have a 1000x1000
image that is all transparency and just a 200x200 size piece of artwork in the middle, it will use
as much memory as a 1000x1000 image - about 4 MB, whereas if cropped a 200x200 image
would use less than 0.2 MB - a saving of over 95%

2

Avoid unnecessarily high-resolution images. If you import an image that is 2000x2000, but only
display it sized 400x400 inside the game, then it uses as much memory as the source image
(about 16 MB), whereas if the image was more appropriately sized it would only use about 0.6
MB of memory - also a saving of over 95%.

3

Avoid excessively long animations. All images in an animation need to be loaded in to memory.
If an animation with 100 frames can be reasonably achieved with just 50 frames, it will use half
as much memory.

4

Stay under power-of-two sizes. Construct packs Sprite images onto spritesheets, which for
technical reasons are always a power-of-two size (e.g. 512, 1024, 2048, 4096...). This means that
images just over a power-of-two size, like 530px, pack inefficiently: they don't fit neatly across a
spritesheet and end up wasting space. However images just under a power-of-two size, like
500px, do pack efficiently as they can fit more images on a spritesheet. Note that Construct also
adds some padding so also avoid exactly power-of-two sizes like 512px - you should try to keep
images at least 4px under this size to account for padding. To illustrate this, consider that on a
spritesheet sized 2048x2048, an image that is 530x530 wide can only be fit in 9 times (3 across
and 3 down), but an image that is 500px wide can be fit in 16 times (4 across and 4 down) - in
both cases the spritesheet is the same size and so uses the same amount of memory, but the
Page 338 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

latter case is a much more efficient use of that memory; also consider that if both cases use 16
images, the former case will then need to spill another 7 images on to another spritesheet, which
will use more memory and also pack inefficiently. (Note an exception is Tiled Backgrounds are
not used on spritesheets, and so can be a power-of-two size.)
5

Use composition for level design. Some people are tempted to use lots of unique large image
tiles to design levels as if they were one huge image. This will use a lot of memory and is not
how most modern games are designed. Instead use a Tiled Background to make a repeating
base layer (possibly using tile randomization to make the repetition less obvious), and then
design lots of individual pieces of a level that can be independently placed and re-used at
different sizes and angles across the level. For example rather than designing a huge single
image with a whole forest drawn on to it, use a repeating background, design a small selection
of unique trees, and then place these at different sizes, scales and angles across the level to
build a forest. Effects like color tint and opacity can also be used to add more variety and break
up any repetition. Then the entire level's image memory usage is only the amount for the
background and each unique tree, even though a much larger level was designed.

The estimated peak memory use is based on only the single layout with the largest memory
requirement, because only images for one layout are loaded at a time. In Construct this is called
layout-by-layout loading.

Layout-by-layout loading
Construct only loads the images for the current layout. This avoids loading the entire project in
memory which would be slow and consume a great deal of memory. When starting a layout, all
images for the objects placed in the Layout View are pre-loaded. This includes all frames in all
animations of any Sprite objects. (In other words, Sprites are either fully loaded in to memory, or
not at all - they are never part-loaded.) When the layout ends, all images that are loaded but not
used on the next layout are released from memory.
If an object is not placed in the Layout View, but an event sheet creates it at runtime, its images
are not pre-loaded. Construct is forced to load the object images at the moment of creation,
which can cause a momentary pause, or in extreme cases a constant stuttering (also known as
"jank"). Construct's image memory usage estimate in the editor will not include such images as it
doesn't know if they will be used, and so the memory usage of these kinds of dynamic loaded
images will only be reflected in the debugger's runtime image memory measurement. A better
approach is to place any objects that will be used by the layout in the Layout View. If they are not
immediately needed then they can be destroyed in a Start of layout event. They will then not exist
when the layout starts, but Construct will still have pre-loaded their images, ensuring that they
can later be created at runtime without any jank.

Calculating image memory use
First of all it is important to note the image format has no effect on memory use. You can save
on your project's download size by setting some images to a different format like PNG, JPEG or
WebP. However this does nothing to memory use: compressed images cannot be directly
rendered, so upon loading all images are decompressed in to a 32-bit ARGB bitmap format. This

Page 339 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

means each pixel takes four bytes for the alpha, red, green and blue channels. (Note images are
also stored compressed inside your project file - so the size of your project file has nothing to do
with its memory use. You can easily have a small project file with a huge memory requirement.)
Consequently, the approximate memory use of an image in bytes is its number of pixels
multiplied by 4. For example a 100x100 image would use 100 x 100 x 4 = 40000 bytes, or about
39 KB. A HD-sized image at 1920x1080 would take 1920 x 1080 x 4 = 8294400 bytes, or about
7.9 MB. Note that transparent pixels still count!
It is also important to note that the memory use is based on the source image - that is, as it
appears in the image editor. If the object is stretched in the Layout View or at runtime, it does not
use any more or less memory. It is just rendering the source image in memory (which is always
at its original size) at a different size on to the screen.
The image memory usage is based on all the images (including all animation frames) of all
objects on the current layout. Therefore using fewer, smaller images will always result in less
memory usage.

Don't mis-use 'Downscaling quality'
Construct uses several optimisations, including spritesheeting, to save memory. Setting the
Downscaling project property to High quality forces spritesheeting to pad out all sprites to
power-of-two sizes, negating the memory saving of spritesheets. This can significantly add to
the memory requirement of your project. High quality mode exists only to address two relatively
minor rendering issues (edge fringing on sprites, or altered quality on the last animation frame).
It should not be used unless one of these rendering issues has been specifically observed and
the issue is resolved by choosing this option. Otherwise your project will be paying a very high
price in memory usage for no reason.

Audio
Usually images take up the most of a project's memory use. However it's worth noting how
audio is loaded in to memory.
It's important to categorise audio between the sound and music folders because they are loaded
differently and therefore have different memory usage.

Sounds
Audio in the Sounds folder is fully decompressed in to memory. This allows sound effects to be
played instantly without any latency from having to first load or decompress the audio, ensuring
sound effects are heard at the appropriate time. Like with images, the compressed size helps
reduce the download but does not reduce memory use: the sound will be decompressed in to
PCM wave buffers.
By default the project property Preload sounds is enabled, meaning all sounds are downloaded
and decompressed while the loading bar is showing. As a result all sounds in the project will be
decompressed in to memory on startup. With a common playback configuration of 16-bit
Page 340 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

samples at 44.1 KHz, one second of single-channel audio will use 88000 bytes (about 86 KB),
and double that for stereo (about 172 KB). For one minute of audio, that is about 5 MB for single
channel and 10 MB for stereo. This is the primary reason music tracks should not be
categorised as "sound": if you have 15 minutes of stereo music, that will consume 150 MB of
memory. On some platforms, decoding a full music track can also be quite slow, adding a lot to
the startup time.
If Preload sounds is disabled, sounds are not loaded during startup and the project can start
quicker. However the first time each sound is played may be delayed since it must first download
and decode it in full. Using the Preload action in the Audio object can help mitigate this. Note
Construct does not release sounds once loaded to ensure they can be played quickly again. To
release the memory, you must use one of the Unload actions. This makes you responsible for
managing audio memory in your project.
Audio in the Sounds folder should be short, latency-sensitive sound effects. Consider cutting
down any very long duration sound effects - or, if playback latency is not important, consider
categorising it as "Music" instead.

Music
Contrary to sound effects, music is streamed. Generally this means the audio engine will have a
small playback buffer of a fixed length, and while the audio is playing it is loaded, decoded and
played in small chunks that connect together seamlessly. This means the memory use is low
regardless of the length of the track, and it can even start playing the audio before it has finished
downloading. This is why music is not pre-loaded while the loading bar is showing - there's no
need to wait for it to finish downloading before starting the project. However playback cannot
always start immediately, since it may need to wait for the download to finish buffering, or for
the first chunk to load and decode. In terms of memory use, the main consideration is simply to
make sure long audio tracks is categorised as music and not sound.

Other resources
Many other types of resources will use a small amount of memory. However these are not
usually significant relative to the memory usage of images and audio, so usually you can
disregard them. Remember though that nothing in computing comes for free - for example every
object that you create will use a small amount of memory, so you could also end up using lots of
memory if you create tens of thousands of objects. This could even happen by accident, such as
if you have an event sheet that creates objects but you forgot to add any logic to destroy them
later, so it just endlessly creates more and more objects.
Anything that is pushed to an extreme will likely end up using a lot of memory, so try to make
sure all aspects of your project remain in reasonable proportions, and it is unlikely you will have
any problems with anything else.

Page 341 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

OPTIMIZING DOWNLOAD SIZE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/tips-and-guides/download-size

Construct's engine has a very low overhead - an empty and fully-optimized exported project is
around 300 KB compressed. Most of the download size of your project will come from the
content of your project. While many people have fast Internet connections, download size can
still be an important consideration: some people in certain places or circumstances still have
slower connections; some platforms have file size limits; and the faster people can start running
your project, the more happy customers you'll have. This guide includes some advice about
reducing your project's download size.

Check your download size
A quick way to check your project's download size is to export it, extract the zip to an empty
folder, and then check the size of the files in the folder (for example in Windows, select all, rightclick and choose Properties). Then you can also browse through the files looking for any
particularly large files or folders to help identify what you need to focus on to best reduce the
download size.

Images
Often much of a project's download size come from its images. A key point to be aware of is the
difference between lossless and lossy image formats. Lossless means the image quality is
preserved exactly, with pixel-perfect reproduction of the original image. This has the best quality
but such images can only be compressed so far, particularly if they have complex content. Lossy
images do not preserve the image quality exactly, but consequently can reduce the file size
much further than lossless images. There is also a quality option for lossy images, allowing you
to choose the trade-off between file size and quality.

Use lossy formats
The easiest way to reduce the download size of your project's images is to switch them to use a
lossy format. By default Construct uses lossless compression to avoid affecting your artwork.
Choosing a lossy format allows for further compression, although it does affect the display
quality. Usually large, photographic-style images, or background images where quality
differences may not be noticed, are best suited to lossy formats.
To set an image to use a lossy format, use the Set export image format button in the image
editor toolbar.

Page 342 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

You can apply the changes to individual images, the entire animation, the entire object, or even
the entire project. Switching an entire project to use lossy images is a surprisingly effective
approach, particularly with the AVIF image format. See the blog post Reducing download sizes
with lossy spritesheets for more analysis. A good technique may be to set an entire project to
use lossy images with a relatively low quality, and then after exporting look at your project and
identify if you can see any places the quality isn't sufficient. Then for those specific objects you
can either increase the quality, or switch it back to lossless compression. This should leave your
project using the most efficient compression possible for images, while achieving a sufficient
visual quality.

Use modern formats
When you export your project, the smallest download size can be achieved by choosing WebP
and AVIF for the export image formats. PNG and JPEG are both quite dated and produce larger
file sizes for the same quality. AVIF is particularly effective for lossy images, but note while all
modern browsers support it, some older browsers or systems may not have support for it.

Other export settings
When you export your project, be sure to also enable Deduplicate images (which removes
redundant identical images), and Optimize images (which will use more processing time to
compress images, so export is slower but the resulting files are smaller). Both will help you have
the smallest download size possible for your images.

Use fewer and lower resolution images
The smallest image file is one that is not exported at all - if you can, remove any redundant
images, and reduce the number of frames in animations. Smaller images also compress better,
so try resizing images smaller in the image editor. In particular, avoid having highly detailed
images at a higher resolution than necessary.

Audio
Sound effects are usually relatively brief in duration and so don't produce large files. However
music tracks and longer sound effects may end up using a lot of data.
The best way to reduce the download size of audio is to choose the lowest acceptable bitrate
when importing audio to Construct. The import dialog has a dropdown to select the bitrate in the
corner; lower bitrates produce smaller files, but will have poorer quality. Note that Construct
encodes audio to WebM Opus, but if you import a WebM Opus file directly, it uses the file as-is.
So the best way to control the bitrate is to import uncompressed audio (such as PCM WAV).
Page 343 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

You can also save your project as a folder, and use external audio tools to try compressing audio
different ways - but note it must be in WebM Opus format. Another trick is reducing stereo or
multi-channel audio to mono (single-channel). Lastly, using fewer audio files, and shorter sound
effects and music tracks, will mean less data too.

Video
Video files can be particularly large to download. Construct doesn't include its own video
encoder like it does with audio. Try to use shorter video clips at lower resolution and with a lower
framerate. You can also use external video tools to try to better compress video files, with a
trade-off between bitrate and quality, much like with audio. Also prefer to use modern codecs
where possible - for example AV1 is now pretty widely supported, and will be able to achieve a
smaller download size at the same quality as an older codec like VP8.

Other project files
You can import any files you like to Construct in the Project Bar. It's worth checking in case you
imported any particularly large files of other kinds! These won't necessarily need to be
downloaded up-front if your project only loads them later on, but it's worth remembering them
too.

Other tips
Here is some other advice relating to reducing the download size or wait time for your project.

Minify script on export
When exporting your project, choosing the Advanced script minify option will produce the
smallest possible JavaScript files. For large projects this will make a smaller difference than
optimizing images, audio and video, but it will help achieve the smallest download size possible.
If you write JavaScript code in your project, note you may need to make changes to use
Advanced minify mode - see the manual section on advanced minification. Alternatively Simple
mode should always be safe, but won't reduce the JavaScript file size as much.

Use a loader layout on the web
For web exports, consider using a loader layout. This is a special layout that can start running
while the rest of the project is still downloading. Construct only needs to download the content
shown on the loader layout before it can start it. This means the user can see something
interactive much more quickly, even if the overall download size is the same. See the tutorial
How to use loader layouts to make custom loading screens.
Note if you aren't publishing to the web and are using an "offline" export option like a desktop
export, then there's no need to use a loader layout - the entire project is already downloaded by
the time it starts running.

Avoid bundling browser engines
Page 344 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Where possible, avoid using export options that bundle the browser engine with your project.
This includes NW.js, and Windows WebView2 in "fixed" distribution mode (but the default uses
the system webview so doesn't bundle a browser engine). Bundling an entire browser engine
with your project can add 100-200 MB to the download size, even compressed. For example an
empty project exported to NW.js for Windows will be over 100 MB. On the other hand the
Windows WebView2 export option by default uses the built-in system webview and so doesn't
need to bundle anything, and so will be far smaller.

Page 345 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ICONS & SPLASH SCREENS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/tips-and-guides/icons-splash

The Icons & screenshots folder in the Project Bar holds a set of image files that are used for
icons, splash screens or screenshots for your project. The specific images used depend on the
platform you export to, but where possible Construct will automatically use the images from the
folder where appropriate.

Image purposes
When you select an image in the Icons & screenshots folder in the Project Bar, the Properties Bar
updates to show properties for that image. The most important property is the Purpose property.
This tells Construct what you want to use the image for. The different purposes and what they
are used for are described below.

None set
If the purpose is (none set), Construct won't automatically use this icon for anything. It will be
treated as a simple image file that is bundled with your project. This may be useful if you want to
manually configure an icon after exporting. It's also the default for newly imported image files,
so you may want to change it after importing if you intend for the icon to be used for something
else.

App icon
This will use the image as the standard app icon. This is used for apps on mobile devices,
desktop exports, the page icon on the web, and also the app icon for installable web apps.
The icon size is automatically derived from the image size. For most platforms, icons should be
square, and are typically in a range of power-of-two sizes, such as 32x32, 128x128, 256x256, etc.
Most platforms support a range of icon sizes, so Construct will list all icons with this purpose in
the exported project, and the target platform will select an appropriate icon size from the
available set.

App icon maskable
Currently this purpose is specific to installable web apps (Progressive Web Apps, or PWAs). All
web exports from Construct are PWAs, and so in supported browsers can be installed, such as
adding to the device home screen. The App icon purpose can be used for this case, but
optionally you can also provide a maskable icon, where the outer 10% edges of the image may
be cropped. This is used to give the system more flexibility in how to crop or shape the icon. As
with app icons, you can also provide multiple maskable icons in different sizes.

Page 346 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

You can test maskable icons with maskable.app, and read more about them at the web.dev page
on maskable icons.

Loading logo
The loading logo is the image shown on the loading screen while loading the project. Typically
this is most relevant to web exports, since the project may take a while to download, during
which time the loading screen is showing. Other export types, like apps, bundle all the resources
locally so typically load quickly enough that the loading screen isn't seen or is only seen briefly.
For the loading logo to appear, the project Loader style property must be set to Progress bar &
logo. The progress bar will appear beneath the loading logo with the same width as the loading
logo image. You can also only specify a single loading logo image.

Adaptive foreground/background
Currently these purposes are specific to Android exports, for specifying adaptive icons. Similar
to maskable icons, these are special icons for Android that comprise of two layers, and may also
be cropped by the system to adjust their appearance. For more information about how Android
uses these icons, refer to the Android developer documentation on adaptive icons.
To specify an adaptive icon, you need to add two icons with identical image sizes, e.g. both
256x256 pixels. Set one to use the Adaptive background purpose, and the other the Adaptive
foreground purpose. Construct will export the icon pair as a single adaptive icon when exporting
for Android.
You can also specify multiple adaptive icons by adding multiple pairs of icons this way, so long
as each pair has a different image size. Construct will export all icon pairs as adaptive icons for
Android, and the system will select an adaptive icon with an appropriate size from the available
set.

iOS splash screen
This purpose is specific to iOS exports. The image with this purpose is used as a universal
splash screen image. Note this image may be significantly cropped depending on the size of the
viewport - the image is displayed centered so any important details should be in the middle, and
the rest of the image decorative.
When creating the splash screen, Construct will first create an image sized 2732x2732 filled with
the project Splash color. The splash image will then be pasted centered on this image. Note if no
splash image is specified, the image with the Loading logo purpose will be used instead.

Android splash icon
This purpose is specific to Android exports. The image with this purpose is used on the splash
screen when the app is first loaded. Note this image may be significantly cropped by Android.
For guidance on the required image size and how Android crops it, refer to the official Android
design guidelines.
Page 347 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Screenshot
This purpose indicates that the given image is a screenshot of the project, suitable for using as a
preview of what the project looks like. Currently this is only used for web exports in order to
allow adding screenshots to a Progressive Web App (PWA) install prompt, which is also known
as the Richer install UI. When choosing the Screenshot purpose for an image, an additional two
properties appear:
Label: a brief description of the image, which may be used as a caption for the screenshot.
Form factor: indicates the type of the screenshot. Typically Narrow is used for mobile
screenshots and Wide is used for desktop screenshots. It is recommended to add at least
one Narrow and one Wide screenshot to ensure the richer install UI appears.

Manually customizing icons and splashes
Some platforms, particularly on mobile, require a range of icons and splash screens in a wide
variety of sizes and formats. These formats can also change over time as system updates are
released with new requirements.
While Construct provides options to specify the basic icons and splashes, for full control you
may wish to refer to the platform specific developer tools. For example when using Xcode, or
exporting to Android Studio, you can use the developer IDEs to specify the full range of possible