# Manual Construct 3  Parte 25 (líneas 2880130000)

## Resumen
- True if any timeline is paused. (línea 8)
- Is paused (línea 9)
- True if a specified timeline is paused, given by its tag. (línea 11)
- On started (línea 12)
- On any started (línea 18)
- will execute the trigger only when the timeline is resumed after being paused. (línea 23)
- On finished (línea 24)
- Triggered when a timeline finishes playback, given by its tag. (línea 26)
- On any finished (línea 27)
- Triggered when any timeline finishes playback. (línea 29)
- On keyframe reached (línea 30)
- Triggered when a master keyframe with certain tags is reached during playback. The (línea 32)
- keyframe can be identified by whether it matches any of the given tags, or if it has all of the (línea 33)
- given tags. Separate tags with spaces. (línea 34)
- On any keyframe reached (línea 35)
- Triggered when any master keyframe is reached during playback. The KeyframeTags (línea 37)
- On time set (línea 44)
- Triggered when the time of a timeline is set with the Set Time action. (línea 46)
- Timeline controller actions (línea 48)
- Play (línea 49)

## Contenido


True if any timeline is paused.
Is paused

True if a specified timeline is paused, given by its tag.
On started

Triggered when a timeline starts playing, given by its tag. Use the "Type" parameter to
specify when the trigger should take place. "Any" will execute the trigger any time a timeline
is started, "Starting" will execute the trigger only on the initial playback of the timeline and
"Resuming" will execute the trigger only when the timeline is resumed after being paused.
On any started

Triggered when any timeline starts playing. Use the "Type" parameter to specify when the
trigger should take place. "Any" will execute the trigger any time a timeline is started,
"Starting" will execute the trigger only on the initial playback of the timeline and "Resuming"
will execute the trigger only when the timeline is resumed after being paused.
On finished

Triggered when a timeline finishes playback, given by its tag.
On any finished

Triggered when any timeline finishes playback.
On keyframe reached

Triggered when a master keyframe with certain tags is reached during playback. The
keyframe can be identified by whether it matches any of the given tags, or if it has all of the
given tags. Separate tags with spaces.
On any keyframe reached

Triggered when any master keyframe is reached during playback. The KeyframeTags
expression has a string of the keyframe's Tags property.

Page 819 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On time set

Triggered when the time of a timeline is set with the Set Time action.

Timeline controller actions
Play

Start playing a timeline, with tags to identify this playback.
Play all

Play all the timelines in the layout.
Pause

Pause a timeline by its tag. Paused timelines can subsequently be resumed.
Pause all

Pause all currently playing timelines.
Resume

Resume a paused timeline by its tag.
Resume all

Resume all paused timelines.
Stop

Stop a timeline and reset it to its initial state.
Stop all

Stop all timelines, resetting them all to their initial state.
Set time

Set the current playback time of a timeline in seconds. Note: you can also use a string with a
keyframe tag for the Time parameter, in which case the time is set to the position of that
keyframe. If the timeline is playing when its time is set, playback is stopped.
Set playback rate

Page 820 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set the playback rate of a timeline. 1 is normal speed, 0.5 is half speed, etc. Negative
numbers will play in reverse.
Set instance

Set an instance to be used for the next timeline playback. The instance can be of a different
type to the one used in the editor. The instance will be set to the track with the corresponding
track ID. The track ID can also be left empty in which case it uses the first track in the
timeline. It can also be used repeatedly with an empty ID to keep setting the tracks in the
timeline in sequence. When the timeline is played it will then affect this instance instead of
the one used in the editor. Playback can be controlled by using unique tags when playing the
timeline.
Unset instances

Clears all state associated with calls to Set instance.

Timeline controller expressions
Time(nameOrTags)

Retrieve the current time of the first matching timeline by either name or tags.
Progress(nameOrTags)

Retrieve the progress of the first matching timeline by either name or tags, returning a value
in the range [0, 1].
TotalTime(nameOrTags)

The total time of the first matching timeline by either name or tags.
KeyframeTags

In a On keyframe reached or On any keyframe reached trigger, a string with the Tags property
of the keyframe that was reached.
TimelineName

In a trigger, a string with the name of the relevant timeline.
TimelineTags

In a trigger, a string with the tags of the relevant timeline.
Value(timelineNameOrTags, valueTrackNameOrId)

Page 821 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Retrieve the value of a value track by specifying a timeline name or tags and a value track
name or track id. If no matching value track is found, the expression returns 0.
Ease(easeName, value)

Return the result of an ease function at a given value in the range 0-1. The ease name can be
either a built-in ease, or the name of a custom ease in the project. A list of the names of builtin eases is included below.

Built-in ease names
These are the names for built-in ease functions that can be used with the TimelineController
Ease expression.
"linear"
"in-sine"
"in-elastic"
"in-back"
"in-bounce"
"in-cubic"
"in-quadratic"
"in-quartic"
"in-quintic"
"in-circular"
"in-exponential"

"out-sine"
"out-elastic"
"out-back"
"out-bounce"
"out-cubic"
"out-quadratic"
"out-quartic"
"out-quintic"
"out-circular"
"out-exponential"

"in-out-sine"
"in-out-elastic"
"in-out-back"
"in-out-bounce"
"in-out-cubic"
"in-out-quadratic"
"in-out-quartic"
"in-out-quintic"
"in-out-circular"
"in-out-exponential"

Page 822 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TOUCH
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/touch

The Touch object detects input from touchscreen devices like phones and tablets, as well as
desktops or laptops with touch-sensitive displays.
The Touch object also provides input from the accelerometer (motion) and inclinometer
(tilt/compass direction) if the device supports them. The user must grant permission for these
before they can be used though; see the Request permission action for more details. Note also
some low-end devices lack the necessary hardware to measure these values.
It is best to support touch input wherever possible. On the web many users browse on mobile
devices with touch input only and no mouse or keyboard. If your project does not support touch
controls, many users will be unable to play your project at all. For a guide on how to implement
on-screen touch controls, see the tutorial on Touch controls.
For a number of examples of using Touch input, search for Touch in the Example Browser.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ITouchObjectType script interface.

Multi-touch
The Touch object supports multi-touch. This is most useful with the On touched object and Is
touching object conditions, which can for example detect if multiple on-screen touch controls are
being used. This is sufficient for many projects.
For more advanced uses, the TouchID, XForID and YForID expressions can be used to track
individual touches for different purposes. Each touch has a unique ID (which is an arbitrary
number), and can be accessed using the TouchID expression in an event like On any touch start.
The touch ID can then be stored in a variable and tracked using the XForID and YForID
expressions. Finally comparing the TouchID in On any touch end indicates when that touch has
been released.

Touch properties
Use mouse input

If enabled, mouse clicks will simulate touch events. Clicking and dragging the left mouse
button will simulate a touch along where mouse dragged, and single clicks will simulate taps.
This can be very useful for testing touch events work properly on a desktop computer with
no touch input supported. However, only single-touch input can be simulated with a mouse,

Page 823 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

and a mouse is much more precise than a touch, so it is still best to test on a real
touchscreen device.

Touch conditions
On double-tap
On double-tap object

Triggered when two tap gestures are performed in quick succession in the same location.
The On double-tap object variant triggers when this gesture is performed over an object.
On hold
On hold over object

Triggered when a touch is held (pressed and not moved) for a short time period. The On hold
over object variant triggers when this gesture is performed over an object.
On tap
On tap object

Triggered when a tap gesture is performed, which is defined as a touch and release in quick
succession in the same location. The On tap object variant triggers when this gesture is
performed over an object.
Compare acceleration

Requires motion permission. Compare the current device's motion as its acceleration on
each axis in m/s^2 (meters per second per second). The effect of gravity can be included or
excluded, but note that some devices only support accelerometer values including the effect
of gravity and will always return 0 for acceleration excluding gravity.
Compare orientation

Requires orientation permission. Compare the device's current orientation, if the device has a
supported inclinometer. Alpha is the compass direction in degrees. Beta is the device frontto-back tilt in degrees (i.e. tilting forwards away from you if holding in front of you). A positive
value indicates front tilt and a negative value indicates back tilt. Gamma is the device left-toright tilt in degrees (i.e. twisting if holding in front of you). A positive value indicates right tilt
and a negative value indicates left tilt.
On permission granted
On permission denied

Triggered after the Request permission action depending on the outcome of the permission
request. These can be triggered without an actual permission prompt being shown to the
user, such as if a similar prompt was already shown.
Page 824 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Compare touch speed

Compare the speed of a specific touch (given by its zero-based index). Touch speed is
measured in canvas pixels per second, so is not affected by scaling the display.
Has Nth touch

True if a given touch number is currently in contact with the screen. For example, Has touch
1 will be true if there are two or more touches currently in contact with the screen (given that
it is a zero-based index).
Is in touch

True if any touch is currently in contact with the screen.
Is touching object

True if any touch is currently touching a given object.
On any touch end

Triggered when any touch releases from the screen.
On any touch start

Triggered upon any touch on the screen.
On Nth touch end

Triggered when a given touch number releases from the screen. For example, On touch 1 end
will trigger when releasing the second simultaneous touch (given that it is a zero-based
index).
On Nth touch start

Triggered when a given touch number touches the screen. For example, On touch 1 start will
trigger upon the second simultaneous touch (given that it is a zero-based index).
On touched object

Triggered when a given object is touched. The Type parameter defaults to start, which means
it will trigger when a touch starts inside the given object. Changing the Type parameter to
end instead means it will only trigger when a touch is released while inside the given object.

Touch actions
Request permission

Page 825 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
q

p

Request permission to access the device accelerometer (motion) or inclinometer
(orientation). The acceleration and orientation expressions may not return any values until
permission has been granted by the user. This must be used in a user input event, normally
On touch end (note that On touch start may not work). Some systems merge both requests
in to one, so if you request only one permission, the device will grant access to both. On
permission granted or On permission denied is triggered depending on whether the user
approved or declined the permission prompt. These can also trigger automatically without a
prompt if the user recently approved or declined a similar permission prompt in the same
browser session.

Touch expressions
AccelerationX
AccelerationY
AccelerationZ

Requires motion permission. Get the current device's motion as its acceleration on each axis
in m/s^2 (meters per second per second) excluding the effect of gravity. The expressions
which include gravity (below) are more widely supported; these will return 0 at all times on
devices which do not support them.
AccelerationXWithG
AccelerationYWithG
AccelerationZWithG

Requires motion permission. Get the current device's motion as its acceleration on each axis
in m/s^2 (meters per second per second) including the acceleration caused by gravity, which
is about 9.8 m/s^2 down at all times. For example, at rest, the device will report an
acceleration downwards corresponding to the force of gravity. These expressions are more
commonly supported than the expressions returning acceleration without G (above).
However, devices are still not guaranteed to support motion detection, in which case these
will return 0 at all times.
CompassHeading
Alpha
Beta
Gamma

Requires orientation permission. Return the device's orientation if supported, or 0 at all times
if not supported. Alpha is the compass heading in degrees. In some circumstances this is
relative to the compass heading of the device when the app started instead of the true
compass heading relative to due North; the CompassHeading expression returns the true
compass heading, where supported. Beta is the device front-to-back tilt in degrees (i.e. tilting
forwards away from you if holding in front of you). A positive value indicates front tilt and a
Page 826 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

negative value indicates back tilt. Gamma is the device left-to-right tilt in degrees (i.e. twisting
if holding in front of you). A positive value indicates right tilt and a negative value indicates
left tilt.
AbsoluteX
AbsoluteY
AbsoluteXAt(index)
AbsoluteYAt(index)
AbsoluteXForID(id)
AbsoluteYForID(id)

Return the current position of a touch over the canvas area. This is (0, 0) at the top left of the
canvas and goes up to the window size. It is not affected by any scrolling or scaling in the
project. The At expressions can return the absolute position of any touch given its zerobased index, and the ForID expressions return the position of a touch with a specific ID.
X
Y
XAt(index)
YAt(index)
XForID(id)
YForID(id)

Return the current position of a touch in layout co-ordinates. It changes to reflect scrolling
and scaling. However, if an individual layer has been scrolled, scaled or rotated, these
expressions do not take that in to account - for that case, use the layer versions below. The
At expressions can return the position of any touch given its zero-based index, and the ForID
expressions return the position of a touch with a specific ID.
X(layer)
Y(layer)
XAt(index, layer)
YAt(index, layer)
XForID(id, layer)
YForID(id, layer)

Return the current position of a touch in layer co-ordinates, with scrolling, scaling and
rotation taken in to account for the given layer. The layer can be identified either by a string
of its name or its zero-based index (e.g. Touch.X("HUD") ). The At expressions can return the
position of any touch on a layer given its zero-based index, and the ForID expressions return
the position of a touch with a specific ID.

Page 827 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TouchCount

Number of touches currently in contact with the device's screen.
TouchID

Return the unique ID of a touch (which is an arbitrary number) in an event like On any touch
start or On any touch end.
Touch IDs are arbitrary numbers. The only guarantee is that all simultaneous touches
have a unique ID. Do not depend on touches having any particular value for their IDs.

TouchIndex

Return the zero-based index of the touch in an event like On any touch start or On any touch
end.
AngleAt(index)
AngleForID(id)

Get the angle of motion of a specific touch in degrees by its zero-based index or unique ID. A
touch must be moving across the device screen for this expression to contain a useful value.
WidthForID(id)
HeightForID(id)

Return the width and height of a touch with a given ID in pixels. This allows the app to
determine the approximate size of the touch area. Note some platforms do not support this
and will always return 0 for the touch size.
PressureForID(id)

Return the pressure of a touch with a given ID, as a number from 0 (least detectable
pressure) to 1 (most detectable pressure). This is useful for devices with pressure-sensitive
displays. Note however not all devices have pressure-sensitive displays, and so will always
return 0 for the pressure.
SpeedAt(index)
SpeedForID(id)

Get the speed of a specific touch by its zero-based index or unique ID. Touch speed is
measured in canvas pixels per second, so is not affected by scaling the display.

Page 828 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

USER MEDIA
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/user-media

The User Media object allows retrieving camera or microphone input from a user. This requires
appropriate hardware being installed on the user's system, such as a webcam for a PC, a phone
camera on a mobile, or a microphone. Camera snapshots can be taken and transferred in to
Sprite or Tiled Background objects, and microphone input can be analysed with the Audio object.
For security reasons, most browsers will prompt the user for permission before allowing user
media input, and will display clear notifications that the media device is currently being used,
such as a recording icon in the system tray or tab icon.
The User Media object has common features, including the ability to have effects applied for
video feeds.
For several examples of what the User Media object can do, search for User Media in the Start
Page.

In the layout
The User Media object appears as a rectangle in the layout view, represented by a red cross with
its icon in the middle. This represents where the video feed will be displayed in the layout. If you
don't need video input, place the User Media object outside the layout.

User Media conditions
On media request approved

Triggered when the user confirms a security prompt after the Request camera or Request
microphone actions, indicating their approval to allow the application to use media input.
On media request declined

Triggered when the user cancels a security prompt after the Request camera or Request
microphone actions, indicating they do not approve the application's request to use media
input.
On retrieved media sources

Triggered after the Get media sources action completes, and the list of media sources is
available with the AudioSource and CameraSource expressions.
On snapshot ready

Page 829 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Triggered after the Snapshot action, when the snapshot is ready to use with the
SnapshotURL expression.

User Media actions
Get media sources

Request a list of media sources that can be used with the Request camera or Request
microphone actions. For example a mobile device may have both front-facing and backfacing cameras, or multiple microphones. Using the media source list allows the specific
camera or microphone input to be selected. This does not complete immediately; the media
source list is only available after the On retrieved media sources trigger fires. The browser
also may not support listing the media sources, in which case the trigger will never fire.
Request camera

Show a security prompt to the user requesting that they give the application permission to
use camera input. Either On media request approved or On media request declined will trigger
depending on their decision. If approved, the User Media object in the layout will start
displaying a video feed from the user's camera device. The specific camera source to use
can be chosen with the Source parameter, if media source listing is supported and a media
source list has been requested. Otherwise the Preferred direction setting can be used to
select the user-facing (front/selfie) or environment-facing (back) camera if the device has
two, which is common on mobile devices. If the preferred width/height are not zero, the
nearest supported resolution that the input device supports will be picked. Microphone input
can also be optionally included, with a given microphone source (see Request microphone),
which is useful in case you want to use Game recorder to record the user's camera and
include audio.
Request microphone

Show a security prompt to the user requesting that they give the application permission to
use microphone input. On media request approved or On media request declined will trigger
depending on their decision. The Audio object must also be in the project for this to be
useful. A tag is given for the microphone input, and the audio input from the microphone is
routed the same way as playing a sound with that tag. This means you can assign effects
from the Audio object to the microphone input by adding the effects to the same tag
assigned to the microphone. A useful combination is to add an analyser effect then a mute
effect to microphone input. This prevents the user hearing their own voice, but allows peak,
RMS and spectrum monitoring with the analyser. The specific microphone input to use can
be chosen with the Source parameter, if media source listing is supported and a media
source list has been requested; otherwise the default microphone input is used.
Snapshot

Page 830 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If the user has approved a camera request and the User Media object is showing a video
feed, then snapshots the current frame. The still image is available after On snapshot ready
triggers in the SnapshotURL expression. The image can be loaded in to a Sprite or Tiled
Background object using the Load image from URL action and passing SnapshotURL, or
downloaded using the Browser object's Invoke download action. This action optionally takes
parameters allowing you to specify the compression format, which is useful if you intend to
upload or save the image and a smaller file size would be advantageous.
Stop

Ends any active video feed or microphone input. Media input must be requested again before
it can be used.

User Media expressions
AudioSourceCount

After On retrieved media sources triggers, the number of audio sources available.
AudioSourceLabelAt(index)

After On retrieved media sources triggers, the label of the audio source at the given index.
The label is normally the name of the input or recording device, but it may be empty for
security reasons (such as if the user has not yet approved a media request).
CameraSourceCount

After On retrieved media sources triggers, the number of camera sources available.
CameraSourceFacingAt(index)

After On retrieved media sources triggers, a string indicating which way a camera source is
facing. This can be "user" (the camera is facing the user, such as the front-facing camera on
a phone), "environment" (the camera is facing away from the user, such as the back-facing
camera on a phone), "left", "right", or empty if unknown or withheld for security reasons.
CameraSourceLabelAt(index)

After On retrieved media sources triggers, the label of the camera source at the given index.
The label is normally the name of the input device, but it may be empty for security reasons
(such as if the user has not yet approved a media request).
SnapshotURL

A data URI representing the snapshotted image after a Snapshot action once On snapshot
ready has triggered, otherwise an empty string.

Page 831 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

VideoWidth
VideoHeight

If a video feed is approved and active, this returns the size in pixels of the feed from the
device (which may not be the same size as the object in the layout). If no feed is active then
0 is returned.

Page 832 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

VIDEO
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/video

The Video object can play a video inside a project. The video renders into the project canvas
itself, allowing other objects to appear on top of it and effects to be applied, unlike with HTML
elements.

Video formats
The supported video formats varies depending on the browser, operating system, and
sometimes hardware. The most widely supported video format is probably MP4 H.264 but as a
patent-encumbered format it is sometimes not possible to support in open source platforms. As
of 2024 the modern and open codec AV1 is increasingly widely supported, but may not be
supported on some older devices.
As a result to guarantee that video playback will work on all browsers and on all platforms, it
may be necessary to encode your videos in two different formats. The Video plugin allows you to
set two sources for a video: a primary source which is played if supported, otherwise it falls
back to the secondary source (which is also only played if supported, but two formats should be
enough to achieve universal support). This also allows choosing a modern efficient format
which isn't universally supported as a primary source, and an older and less efficient but
universally supported format as a secondary source, ensuring optimal playback on modern
devices while still supporting older devices.

Identifying video formats
Video files actually encompass multiple different sub-formats. These include:
Container format: this is usually WebM or MPEG-4 (MP4).
Video codec: the codec used to compress video data, such as VP9, H.264 or AV1.
Audio codec: if the video has an audio track, then this is the codec used to compress audio
data, such as Opus or AAC.
Use a third-party tool to identify the container, video codec and audio codec used by a video file.
For example VLC media player provides codec information via the menu Tools►Codec
information while playing a video.

Importing video
Be sure to import video files to the Videos project folder. If video files are added in any other
project folder, e.g. Files, they may be exported to a different folder and fail to load.

Page 833 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Due to the complexities of video compression and the patent-encumbrance of some codecs like
H.264, Construct does not provide a video importer like it does with audio. You must encode
your video files yourself, and then import them as project files. WebM and its codecs VP8, VP9
and AV1 are open formats and you should be able to find free encoders. However H.264/H.265
encoders may involve a fee.
When publishing a project using video playback to the web, be sure that your server has the
correct MIME types set up otherwise video playback may fail after export.

Playback restrictions
In some cases, video playback cannot begin unless triggered by a user input event. The Play
action will work in a user input trigger like On touch start, but if done outside of that it cannot
play right away. To work around this the video plugin will wait until the next touch event to start
playing the video. This also applies to autoplaying videos: it will not start until the first touch.
This restriction generally only applies to web browsers. Usually if you publish an app, the
restriction is able to be removed because the app can adjust the permissions.

Video properties
Primary source
Primary format

The name of the project file to play if the primary format is supported. Make sure Primary
format matches the actual container and codec used by the specified project file. See Video
formats above for more details.
Secondary source
Secondary format

The name of the project file to play, if the primary format is not supported. Make sure
Secondary format matches the actual container and codec used by the specified project file.
See Video formats above for more details.
Autoplay

The autoplay or preload mode. This can be:
No: nothing is done until the video is requested to be played.
Preload: on startup the video will start downloading the video data, but will not start
playing it yet. This can allow video playback to start more quickly when requested. Some
platforms (e.g. mobile devices on cellular data connections) may ignore this.

Page 834 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Yes: on startup the video will start downloading the video data, and also start playing it
as soon as it determines the progress and transfer rate are sufficient to play through to
the end without stalling for buffering. Some mobile platforms will not start playing until
the first touch event - see Compatibility for more information.
Play in background

If disabled, then switching browser tab, minimising the browser window, switching to a
different mobile app, or otherwise hiding the window will pause the video and resume it when
switching back. This is intended to avoid annoying the user with continued audio playback
when deciding to do something else, and it also helps save battery on mobile devices.
However for some types of app it may be desirable to keep playing in the background, in
which case enabling this allows continued playback even when in the background.
Initially visibile

Whether the video is initially visible or invisible. Note that if it is invisible, audio playback may
still be heard when playing, so it may be desirable to also mute the video.

Video conditions
Has ended

True if the video playback has reached the end of the video and stopped.
Is muted

True if the audio playback from the video has been muted.
Is paused

True if the video playback has been paused.
Is playing

True if the video playback is actively playing.
On playback event

Triggers when a playback event occurs. This can be one of:
Can play: triggered when enough data is available to play at least a couple of frames, but
there may not be enough data to play through to the end.
Can play through: triggered when the browser determines that the load progress and
transfer rate are sufficient for playback through to the end without stalling for buffering.

Page 835 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

However this is not a guarantee, since the transfer rate could drop or be cut off
completely.
Ended: triggered when playback reaches the end of the video.
Error: triggered if an error occurs during video loading, decoding or playback.
Started loading: triggered when the browser begins loading video data.
Played: triggered when playback begins.
Paused: triggered upon pausing the video playback.
Stalled: triggered if the video download rate is too slow to keep up the current playback
rate. This will cause the video to pause while it finishes loading the rest of the video, also
known as buffering.

Video actions
Pause

Pause the video playback if it is currently playing.
Play

Start playing the video. On some platforms this can only happen in a user input event. For
more information, see the section on Compatibility.
Set looping

Set whether the video is looping, so that it restarts from the beginning when it reaches the
end.
Set muted

Set whether the audio playback from the video is muted (inaudible) or unmuted.
Set playback rate

Set how fast the video playback proceeds, as a multiplier of its original speed. That means 1
is the original speed, 2 is twice as fast, 0.5 is half as fast, etc.
Set playback time

Page 836 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set the video playback time to a specific time in seconds (i.e. seek to the given time). Due to
the way video encoding technologies work, the video may only be able to seek close to but
not exactly on the specified time.
Set source

Set a different video file to play. As with the object properties, different primary and
secondary formats can be specified. Setting the source does not automatically start playing
the video; use the Play action to start it after changing the source.
Set volume

Set the volume of the audio playback from the video, in decibels attenuation. 0 is full volume,
-10 dB is approximately half as loud, etc. The audio cannot be amplified: positive volume
values will be treated as 0.

Video expressions
Duration

The video duration in seconds, if the video has loaded enough for this to be determined.
PlaybackRate

The current playback rate as set by the Set playback rate action, as a multiplier of the original
rate (e.g. 1 is original speed, 2 is twice as fast, etc).
PlaybackTime

The current playback time in seconds.
VideoWidth
VideoHeight

The dimensions of the source video, in pixels.
Volume

The current audio playback volume in dB attenuation.

Page 837 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

VIDEO RECORDER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/video-recorder

The Video recorder object can record videos of your project in real-time. It can record either the
main display canvas, the browser tab, the entire screen, or even a different app (where
supported).
Note not all browsers or platforms record the same types of audio or video. The codecs used
and the resulting file format can vary; use Is audio/video format supported conditions to check
which are supported. By default the recording actions use Auto as the format, which means a
supported format will be picked.
Screen recording, when supported, often requires a permission prompt from the user for
security reasons. Further, to avoid annoying the user, this may only be supported inside a
user input event, such as On button clicked, On touch start, etc.

Video recorder conditions
Is audio format supported
Is video format supported

Check if particular audio and video codecs are supported for the recorded video.
Is recording

True while currently recording the canvas or screen.
Is recording supported

Check if the current browser or platform supports recording. If this is not true, video
recording will not work.
Is screen recording supported

Check if the Start screen recording action is supported. This action can record the user's
entire screen, and is not always supported even when the Start recording action is supported.
On recording error

Triggered if an error occurs while recording a video. The recording is unlikely to be available
after an error.

Page 838 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On recording ready

Triggered after recording finishes, e.g. after the Stop recording action, when the video
recording has finished encoding and is available to download with the RecordingURL
expression. This can be downloaded using the Browser object's Invoke download action.

Video recorder actions
Start recording

Start recording a video of the main display canvas. Note this excludes form controls like
buttons and text inputs, because these are HTML elements that "float" above the main
display canvas and aren't actually part of the canvas, so are excluded from the recording. (If
it is important to record these, some browsers support screen recording and can capture the
entire browser tab.) Specific video and audio formats can be chosen, but it is recommended
to leave them at Auto to ensure a supported format is used, or set to None to omit either the
video or audio from the recording. A custom framerate can be set but the default 0 indicates
the display rate. The quality in kilobits per second (kbps) can also be set, determining the
video quality vs. size tradeoff. Use Stop recording to end the recording, after which On
recording ready will trigger so the video can be downloaded.
Start screen recording

Start recording a video of the user's entire screen. This only works when the Is screen
recording supported condition is true. For security reasons, browsers will prompt the user
before the recording starts. To avoid the prompt annoying users, this action may only be
allowed in a user input trigger, e.g. On button clicked, On touch start etc. Some browsers also
provide options in the prompt to record either the browser tab (which will include non-canvas
elements like form controls), a different app, or the screen. Specific video and audio formats
can be chosen, but it is recommended to leave them at Auto to ensure a supported format is
used, or set to None to omit either the video or audio from the recording. Note that if audio is
included, the video can only include audio played by the project itself, unless System audio is
checked, which allows for recording all audio output from the system including other apps;
note however the user may still need to opt-in to including system audio in the permission
prompt. The quality in kilobits per second (kbps) can also be set, determining the video
quality vs. size tradeoff. Use Stop recording to end the recording, after which On recording
ready will trigger so the video can be downloaded.
Start User Media recording

Start recording video and/or audio from a User Media object's input. On media request
approved must trigger before this can be used.
Stop recording

Stop any active recording. When the video has finished encoding, On recording ready will
trigger so the video can be downloaded.
Page 839 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Video recorder expressions
RecordingURL

In On recording ready, a URL that can be used to download the recorded video file. Use the
Browser object's Invoke download action to download this.
RecordingType

The content type (also known as MIME type) of the recording that was made, e.g.
"video/webm;codecs=vp9". This is useful if you need to know the type of an Auto format
recording, such as when sharing it.
RecordingFileExtension

The file extension of the recording that was made including the dot, e.g. ".webm". This is
useful if you need to know the file extension of an Auto format recording, such as when
download it.

Page 840 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

WEBSOCKET
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/websocket

The WebSocket plugin is a simple wrapper around the standardised WebSocket protocol. It
allows for low-overhead bi-directional communication in real-time. Since WebSockets are
standards-based, it should be compatible with any standards-compliant WebSocket server.
Using the WebSocket plugin requires a WebSocket server. Construct does not provide a server
nor can the WebSocket plugin be used to make a server. If you don't already have a WebSocket
server set up, you will need to create one yourself using a technology like node.js with
WebSocket support. This can be a significant undertaking and require server-side programming
knowledge.

Scripting
This object has no script interface, because when using JavaScript or TypeScript coding you can
use the browser built-in WebSocket API.

Secure WebSockets and preview mode
Construct runs and previews your projects on a secure (HTTPS) site. Some browsers block
connections from secure to insecure sites. This means if you use an insecure WebSocket ( ws:
rather than wss: ) the connection may be blocked in Construct's preview mode.
On today's web, it is best practice to use secure connections for all services. Your site should
also host your project on HTTPS, and any WebSockets you use should use secure connections
as well. HTTPS hosting is actually required for many features to work, secure WebSockets are
more likely to connect successfully, and obviously it makes your content much more secure, so
this is a good idea anyway. In some browsers you may be able to temporarily unblock the use of
insecure WebSockets by clicking a button in the browser or changing settings, but it is a much
better idea to ensure all your services are secure. In future, browsers may block the use of
insecure sites and connections entirely.

WebSockets and multiplayer games
It may be tempting to use WebSockets to design real-time multiplayer games. Despite the fact
they communicate in real-time, WebSockets are not a suitable choice for latency-sensitive realtime games. The underlying transport uses reliable transmission, meaning a single dropped
packet can hold up all transmission until the packet is retransmitted successfully. For games
with demanding real-time requirements, this can cause unplayable levels of latency. It is usually
difficult to design around this without changing the transmission mode, which WebSockets do
not support. Consider using the specially-designed Multiplayer plugin Paid plans only instead.

Page 841 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On the other hand, WebSockets should be suitable for games without such a demanding realtime requirement, like turn-based games. It should also be useful for application services, like
chat rooms. Note this will still require you to create your own WebSocket server.

WebSocket properties
The WebSocket object has no properties.

WebSocket conditions
Is connecting

True if currently in the process of establishing a connection to a server. The connection is not
yet successfully established; there may still be an error.
Is open

True if a connection has been successfully established and the communication channel is
currently open.
Is supported

Use before attempting any connections to verify the current browser or platform supports
WebSockets.
On closed

Triggered when the connection is closed, either deliberately or due to an error. The
CloseCode and CloseReason expressions can indicate why the connection was closed.
On error

Triggered when an error occurs in the WebSocket connection. Use the ErrorMsg expression
to get the error message text.
On opened

Triggered when the connection is successfully established and the communication channel
is now open.
On binary message

Triggered when a binary message arrives from the server over an open connection. The
specified Binary Data object has the contents of the message written to it when the trigger
fires, allowing access to the message content.
On text message

Page 842 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Triggered when a text message arrives from the server over an open connection. Use the
MessageText expression to retrieve the content of the message.

WebSocket actions
Close

Close any active connection. No more messages can be sent or will be received after
closing.
Connect

Connect to a WebSocket server. WebSocket server addresses typically start with ws:// for
non-secure transmission and wss:// for secure transmission. Note some network
configurations may require secure transmission in order to function correctly.
The Protocol parameter may be optionally set to a required sub-protocol (sent with the SecWebSocket-Protocol header in the WebSocket handshake). If the server does not indicate it
supports the chosen sub-protocol, the connection will fail to be established. This can be
used to prevent the client connecting to WebSocket servers that do not understand your
application's specific messages.
Send binary

Send the contents of a Binary Data object as a binary message to the server. This is ignored
if the connection is not currently open.
Send text

Send a text string to the server. This is ignored if the connection is not currently open.

WebSocket expressions
CloseCode

In the On closed trigger, returns the numeric code of the close reason. This can be one of the
standard-specified return values, or a user-defined value.
CloseReason

In the On closed trigger, returns a string describing the reason the connection was closed.
This is optional and may be empty.
ErrorMsg

In On error, the error message text.

Page 843 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

MessageText

In On text message, the text content of the message just received from the server.

Page 844 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

XML
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/xml

The XML plugin can parse and read data from XML documents. It uses XPath to access the
XML document. XPath is a kind of query language for XML, similar to how SQL is a query
language for databases. A description of how to use XPath is out of the scope of this manual;
there are some free tutorials you can search for on the web.
Click here to open an example of the XML plugin.
Currently the XML plugin is read-only. You can read data but not change any values in the XML
document.

Scripting
This object has no script interface, because when using JavaScript or TypeScript coding you can
use the browser built-in APIs for parsing and serializing XML.

Loading an XML document
XML must be loaded as a string with the Load action. If you have a small snippet of XML, you
can paste it directly in to the action parameter - but note in expressions a double-quote character
( " ) must be repeated twice ( "" ) to avoid ending the string, which can be inconvenient. Instead
it is recommended to load an XML project file using the AJAX object. When the AJAX request
completes, pass AJAX.LastData in to the Load action. Then the data from the file can be used.

XML conditions
For each node

Repeat the event once for each node returned by an XPath query. Typically this will be used
with a query that returns multiple nodes, e.g. "/bookstore/book" to select all "book" nodes
under "bookstore". In the For each node event, the current node is set to the one currently
being iterated. This means relative XPaths, like "title/text()" , work relative to the current
node (in this case returning the text of the child "title" tag). For each node can also be nested,
so you can iterate another list relative to the current node.

XML actions
Load

Load an XML document from a string. See 'Loading an XML document' above.

XML expressions
Page 845 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

NodeCount

Return the number of nodes returned by an XPath expression. For example, this can count
the number of elements with a given name. In a For each node event, the XPath is relative to
the current node.
NumberValue

Return a number from an XPath expression. If multiple values are returned, only the first
value is retrieved. In a For each node event, the XPath is relative to the current node.
StringValue

Return a string from an XPath expression. If multiple values are returned, only the first value
is retrieved. In a For each node event, the XPath is relative to the current node.

Page 846 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SYSTEM OBJECT REFERENCE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/system-reference

The System object is the only object built in to Construct. It provides features to access the
runtime engine, and utilities that are useful for most projects. For more information on the
System object see Project Structure from the Overview section of the manual.
Since the System object provides a lot of features, it is documented in separate sections for its
conditions, actions and expressions.
System conditions
System actions
System expressions

Page 847 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SYSTEM CONDITIONS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/system-reference/systemconditions

This section describes all the conditions in the built-in System object in Construct. They are
listed in the order they appear in the Add Condition dialog.

Angles
Note angles in Construct start with 0 degrees facing right and increment clockwise.
Is between angles

True if a given angle is between the two other angles in degrees. The first and second angles
must be in clockwise order. That is, X is between 0 and 45 degrees is true if the angle X is in a
45 degree area, but X is between 45 and 0 degrees is true if X is in the 315 degree area from
45 degrees through 0 degrees. The first angle is inclusive, but the second angle is exclusive,
to ensure adjacent ranges are handled correctly.
Is clockwise from

True if a given angle is clockwise from another angle in degrees, or in other words, if it is 180
degrees or less in a clockwise direction from Angle 2 to Angle 1. Invert to test if
anticlockwise instead. For example, 45 degrees is clockwise from 0 degrees, but 0 degrees is
anticlockwise from 45 degrees. Angle 1 is the angle to test, and Angle 2 is the reference
angle to test whether Angle 1 is clockwise from.
Is within angle

True if an angle is within a number of degrees of another angle. This is more reliable than
testing if an angle exactly equals an angle, e.g. X within 0.5 degrees of 90 degrees is probably
better than X equals 90 degrees, since there are many cases an angle can be very close to,
but not exactly, 90 degrees.

General
Compare two values

Compare any two expressions (which can either numbers or text) with each other. They can
be compared as Equal, Not equal, Less, Less or equal, Greater or Greater or equal.
Evaluate expression

Page 848 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

True if the given expression is a non-zero number, or a non-empty string. This is useful with
boolean expressions like score < 0 | health < 0 .

Every tick

A condition which is always true. Used on its own, this has the same effect as running every
time it is checked, which is once per tick, hence the name "Every tick". This is about 60 times
a second on most devices; see how events work for more information. Adding Every tick to
an event with other conditions is redundant and has no effect at all.
Is between values

Test if a number is between two values (greater or equal to a lower value and less or equal to
a higher value).
Is group active

Test if a group of events is active or inactive. The name of the group is used to identify it.
Is number NaN

Test if a number is equal to NaN (Not A Number), a special value returned by calculations
which cannot be represented as a real number, such as the square root of -1.
Is value type

Check if a value is a number or a string.
Object UID exists

Test if an object exists with the given Unique ID (UID). For more information on UIDs, see
instances.
Test regex

Test if a given string matches a regular expression with flags. This only returns a true or
false result, so to make more advanced use of regular expressions, see the Regex... system
expressions.

Global & local variables
Compare variable

Compare the value of a number or text type event variable (a global variable or local variable
in scope). The comparison can be made Equal, Not equal, Less, Less or equal, Greater or
Greater or equal.

Page 849 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Is boolean set

Test if a boolean event variable is set to true. To test if it is false, invert the condition.

Layers
Compare opacity

Compare the opacity (or semitransparency) of a layer, from 0 (transparent) to 100 (opaque).
A layer's opacity cannot be outside this range.
Layer is empty

Test if a layer currently has zero instances on it. This counts any objects anywhere at all on
the layer, so even one instance far outside the viewport will make this condition false.
Layer is HTML

Test if a layer is currently set to be a HTML layer. For more information see HTML layers.
Layer is interactive

Test if a layer is currently interactive, allowing its content to respond to mouse and touch
input. This can be changed with the Set layer interactive action.
Layer is visible

Test if a layer is currently set to be visible.
This check includes parent layers: if any parent layer is invisible, then its sub-layers count
as invisible too.

Layer name exists

Test if the current layout includes a layer with the given name (case insensitive). This can be
useful when using dynamic layers (i.e. the Add layer and Remove layer actions).

Layout
On canvas snapshot

Triggered after the Snapshot canvas system action, when the snapshot is ready. It can then
be accessed with the CanvasSnapshot system expression.

Loops
Page 850 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual