# Manual Construct 3  Parte 8 (líneas 84019600)

## Resumen
- information from the action calling the function. (línea 7)
- To add a parameter to a function, use the Add parameter menu option when right-clicking the (línea 8)
- function. (Note you need to right-click on the header or margin, since if you right-click a (línea 9)
- condition, it will show a menu for the condition instead.) (línea 10)
- When you select this the Add function parameter dialog appears for you to fill in details about (línea 12)
- the parameter, including its name, description and type. Parameters appear similar to local (línea 13)
- variables, but inside the function block. (línea 14)
- Parameters work very similarly to local variables - you can use them in expressions, compare (línea 20)
- them, and set them just like any other kind of local variable. Similar to local variables they are (línea 21)
- limited in scope to just the function event and its sub-events. (línea 22)
- Now when you call the function, you can also provide the parameters. Notice the name and (línea 23)
- description you set for the parameters are used. These appear like parameters for any other (línea 24)
- action, but they will set the values of the parameters when calling the function. (línea 25)
- Returning values from functions (línea 27)
- Functions can also return a result. For example, a factorial function could calculate the (línea 28)
- mathematical result and return it. (línea 29)
- means they are used as actions. However if you set a return type of Number, String or Any, the (línea 31)
- as an action. (línea 33)
- A function can set its return value using the Set return value action in the built-in Functions (línea 34)
- object. It can then be called using it as an expression, such as: (línea 35)

## Contenido

information from the action calling the function.
To add a parameter to a function, use the Add parameter menu option when right-clicking the
function. (Note you need to right-click on the header or margin, since if you right-click a
condition, it will show a menu for the condition instead.)

When you select this the Add function parameter dialog appears for you to fill in details about
the parameter, including its name, description and type. Parameters appear similar to local
variables, but inside the function block.

Page 276 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Parameters work very similarly to local variables - you can use them in expressions, compare
them, and set them just like any other kind of local variable. Similar to local variables they are
limited in scope to just the function event and its sub-events.
Now when you call the function, you can also provide the parameters. Notice the name and
description you set for the parameters are used. These appear like parameters for any other
action, but they will set the values of the parameters when calling the function.

Returning values from functions
Functions can also return a result. For example, a factorial function could calculate the
mathematical result and return it.
By default, functions have a return type of None, meaning they don't return any value. This also
means they are used as actions. However if you set a return type of Number, String or Any, the
function returns a value. This also means it is used as an expression instead, so it won't appear
as an action.
A function can set its return value using the Set return value action in the built-in Functions
object. It can then be called using it as an expression, such as:
Functions.MyFunction

Parameters can also be added in parentheses, e.g.:
Functions.MyFunction(1, 2, 3)

The expression returns the value set by the Set return value action in the function call.
Functions which return a value will also appear in the Expressions dictionary, also show up in
autocomplete, and also show call tips when entering parameters, just like other expressions. In
summary, while functions with no return type are essentially custom actions, functions with a
return type are essentially custom expressions.

Picking
Normally, calling a function will run the function with picking reset. That means if an event picks
some instances with conditions, then calls a function, the function runs with all instances picked
again, ignoring the fact that conditions previously picked some instances.
Page 277 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enabling Copy picked on the function changes this so the function keeps the same picked
instances when it is called. This can be convenient for making a function that affects a single
instance, for example - its actions will run on the instance picked by the caller, rather than having
to pick the instance another way (e.g. by its UID).
Note that if the function changes which instances are picked with its own conditions, that does
not affect the place that called the function. When returning after the function has finished, any
changes the function made to picking are discarded. In other words, calling a function does not
affect the calling event's picking, even if Copy picked is enabled.

Asynchronous functions
A function can be set to Asynchronous (or async for short) in the Add/Edit Function dialog. This
allows it to be used with the System Wait for previous actions to complete action. This means if
the function does any waiting itself, such as with an action like Wait 3 seconds, the caller can
also wait for the function call to complete with Wait for previous actions to complete.
Make sure the asynchronous function ends with a Wait for previous actions to complete
action if it uses async actions. This ensures all async actions have been completed before
the function itself is marked as having completed. Alternatively you may want to leave some
async actions at the end that are not waited for, allowing the async function to finish without
waiting for the last actions.
Note this imposes a small performance overhead, so for best performance leave it disabled if
you don't need it.

Function maps
Sometimes it's useful to be able to call a function depending on a string determined at runtime.
The function maps feature allows for this. Try out the Function Maps example to see how it
works.

Nesting and recursion
Like in programming languages, functions support calling functions from other functions, and
functions calling themselves (recursion). Functions calling other functions or recursing create a
new call stack entry with their own unique variables. In other words, like in programming
languages, local variables and parameters are unique at each level of function call. This does not
apply to static local variables or global variables.

Renaming the Functions object
When using functions, you'll notice actions and expressions refer to a built-in "Functions" object.
This can be renamed in case you want to change it, but it does not appear in the Project Bar like
other objects, so it has to be renamed a different way. There are two ways to rename it:

Page 278 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

1

When adding an action, at the first step when you choose an object, right-click on Functions and
click Rename.

2

Right-click on the name of the project in the Project Bar, and then choose Tools►Rename
Functions object. Note this will only appear if there are functions in your project.

JavaScript integration
Scripting
When using scripts in Construct, use runtime.callFunction() to call an event function from script.

External calls
In other cases, it is strongly recommended to use the Addon SDK to integrate JavaScript code
with Construct. However it is possible to trigger a function from JavaScript using the following
function:
c3_callFunction("name", ["param1", "param2"]);

Do not call this with Construct's scripting feature. It will not work correctly. In that context
you must use runtime.callFunction() instead. This method only applies to external
JavaScript.
The function with the given "name" is called by this method. Parameters are optional and can be
omitted, but must be provided as an array in the second argument, and parameters may only be
string, number or boolean values. The method also returns the return value set in Construct (if
any), and also can only return a string or number.
If the project is running in a Web Worker with the Use worker setting, this method is still
available on the DOM. However it instead returns a Promise resolving to the return value, and
asynchronously calls the function by posting a message to the Web Worker. In an async
function, await c3_callFunction(...) will always work.

Page 279 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CUSTOM ACTIONS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/events/custom-actions

Custom actions are special kinds of event blocks that can be called from an action in an
associated object type or family. They work similarly to functions, so it is useful to understand
how functions work first before reading about custom actions.
Using custom actions can help you organize event sheets and avoid having to duplicate groups
of actions or events. Custom actions also have more advanced uses when added to families,
allowing for members of the family to override or extend a family custom action.

Adding custom actions
In the event sheet, custom actions are created by adding a special kind of event block. To create
one, use the Add custom action menu option instead of Add event.

When you select this the Add custom action dialog will appear for you to fill in details about the
custom action. Once created, the custom action appears in the event sheet similar to a normal
event, but with a special icon and descriptive text at the top. This is referred to as the custom
action block.

You can add conditions, actions and sub-events to custom action blocks, just like you can with
normal events. However custom actions do not run unless you run them as an action in its
associated object type or family. Once you've added a custom action block to your project, it will
appear in the Add action dialog alongside all the other object type or family's usual actions.

Page 280 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Choosing the custom action from the Add action dialog adds an action that calls (runs) the
associated custom action block.

Running the custom action action will run the corresponding custom action block, including
testing its conditions, running actions, and running any sub-events, and then return to the
original action and continue from where it left off.
Custom actions are global. This means you can use custom actions anywhere in your event
sheets, even if the corresponding custom action block is in a different event sheet that is not
included in the event sheet you call it from.

Parameters
Much like functions, custom actions can also use parameters. Since these work the same as
with functions, refer to the section on Parameters in the Functions manual entry for more details.

Picking
When running a custom action, the custom action block is run with the same instances picked
as the calling event block. For example this means running a custom action in a On object
clicked trigger will run the custom action block with just the clicked instance picked. This means
custom actions automatically alter just the picked instances, much like normal actions. However
when the custom action block finishes running, any changes to the picked instances it made are
discarded, so it does not affect the running of the original event that called it.
The Copy all picked setting of the custom action block can alter how this works. Normally only
instances of the custom action block's object are automatically picked. However if Copy all
picked is checked, the custom action block will inherit all picked instances from the calling event

Page 281 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

block - including other object types and families. This makes it work similarly to a function with
Copy picked enabled.

Asynchronous custom actions
Much like functions, custom actions can also be made asynchronous, so they can be used with
the system Wait for previous actions to complete action. Since this feature works the same as
with functions, refer to the section on Asynchronous functions in the Functions manual entry for
more details.

Family custom actions
A custom action can be created for a family. This allows some more advanced uses of custom
actions.
Much like with inheriting family instance variables, behaviors and effects, family custom actions
can also be used as actions for every object type in the family. This allows every member of the
family to share the same custom action.

Overrides
When a family has a custom action, it's still possible to create a custom action with the same
name for a specific object type in that family. In that case, the object type's custom action
overrides the family custom action.
For example suppose there are three sprite object types named Piggy, Octopus and Monkey in a
family named Animals, and there is a custom action named PlayAnimation for the family
Animals. A custom action named PlayAnimation can also be added for Monkey. Then when
running the family custom action PlayAnimation, the family custom action block will run for
Piggy and Octopus instances, but the Monkey custom action block will run instead for Monkey
instances.

This allows specific object types in the family to override what a custom action will do for
instances of that object type.

Choosing overrides
Consider the previous example with the Monkey object type having an override for the family
custom action PlayAnimation. In this case, the action list for Monkey includes both actions,
Page 282 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

listing PlayAnimation (Monkey) and PlayAnimation (Animals).

This allows choosing which custom action is run: the Monkey variant will run the override
custom action for Monkey, and the Animals variant will run the original family custom action
ignoring the override. This allows you to explicitly choose whether to run the override or the
original family custom action for the Monkey object type.

Extending a family custom action
By default, an override custom action will entirely replace the family custom action. However it's
also possible to make it extend what the family custom does. This can be done by using the
ability to choose overrides to add an action to the override custom action block that calls the
original family custom action block. (In programming languages, this is sometimes referred to
as a "super" call.)
Continuing the previous example, the Monkey custom action block can add a Monkey action to
run PlayAnimation (Animals), which is the original family custom action.

Therefore when running the Monkey custom action override, it will first do the original family
custom action, and then do its own actions after that. This allows extending what the family
custom action does to do additional things for specific members of the family, rather than
completely replacing the custom action.
Be sure to get the right action in this case. If you accidentally call the Monkey custom action
again from the custom action block, it will create an infinite loop of calling the custom action
repeatedly. To run the family custom action, be sure to add an action for the same object
type as the custom action block, and then choose the family variant of the custom action.

Page 283 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

BREAKPOINTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/events/breakpoints

Paid plans only Breakpoints are an advanced feature that allow you to pause execution of the
event sheet on a specific event, condition or action when running in the debugger. This can be a
significant aid to debugging, since the full capabilities of the debugger can be used while
stepping through events, conditions and actions one-by-one.

Setting a breakpoint
Breakpoints can be toggled on and off for the selected event block, condition or action by rightclicking them and selecting Toggle breakpoint or pressing the F3 keyboard shortcut. Breakpoints
can also be toggled while debugging.
When a breakpoint is set on an event, condition or action, a breakpoint icon appears beside it.

Pausing on a breakpoint
When running the debugger, the project will automatically pause just before it runs an event,
condition or action with a breakpoint.
For events, this means it pauses just before it tests the first condition. This means a top-level
event with a breakpoint will pause every tick, since the event engine reaches it every tick to test
its conditions. It is usually more useful to place event breakpoints on sub-events, since they will
only pause when the parent events have been run. When paused on a breakpoint, the event has a
dashed outline and the icon changes to an arrow.

For conditions, this means it pauses just before it tests the condition. Since the condition has
not yet been tested, the debugger does not know whether the condition will return true or false;
you must resume execution to be able to tell. Note that Construct bails out of events early if any

Page 284 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

condition is false. This means a breakpoint on the second condition won't pause the project if
the first condition is false, since Construct will immediately skip to checking the next event.
When paused on a condition, it is also indicated with a dashed outline, an arrow and also a
changed background color.

For actions, this means it pauses just before the action runs. Placing a breakpoint on the first
action in an event is often more useful than placing a breakpoint on the event itself, since it will
only pause when all the conditions have been met and before any actions have run, as opposed
to just before it starts checking any conditions. When paused on an action, it is indicated
similarly to a condition.

Continuing execution
When paused on a breakpoint, the debugger can be used as normal to inspect or edit values.
However the Pause and Step buttons change in to Continue and Next.
Pressing Continue resumes until the next breakpoint is hit. Remember you can still toggle other
breakpoints while paused on a breakpoint.
Pressing Next will step to the next event, condition or action in sequence in the event sheet.
Alternatively, press F10 with the browser window focused. This is useful for stepping through an
event action-by-action and watching what happens in the debugger's inspector.

Limitations
Unfortunately due to the architecture of the Construct engine, breakpoints cannot be placed
inside some (but not all) triggered events. When not supported, this also means breakpoints
cannot be anywhere inside sub-events to the triggered event.

Using breakpoints
Breakpoints can be incredibly useful to learn more about how your own events work and to help
track down problems. They may take some getting used to in order to get the most out of them,
but once familiar they can be indispensable.

Page 285 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

It is especially useful to have a multi-monitor setup when using breakpoints, or with the
debugger in general. This allows you to have Construct showing which event it has reached on
one screen, and the project running on another screen.

Page 286 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMELINES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/timelines

There are several different elements that make up a timeline. When any of them are selected in
the Timeline Bar, their properties will be shown in the Properties Bar. Some of the properties only
affect the timeline element that owns them, but there are others that also affect other elements
below them in the hierarchy.
The hierarchy is as follows:
Timelines contain Track Folders, Tracks, Value Tracks, Timelines and Timeline Folders
Timeline Folders contain Timelines and Timeline Folders
Track Folders contain Track Folders, Tracks and Value Tracks
Tracks contain Property Track Folders, Property Tracks and Master Keyframes
Value Tracks contain a single Property Track and Master Keyframes
Property Track Folders contain Property Track Folders and Property Tracks
Property Tracks contain Property Keyframes
Master Keyframes contain Property Keyframes (which share a parent Track and position in
the timeline)
Property Keyframes are always the last elements in the hierarchy and don't contain anything
In the specific case of the Ease and Path mode properties, master keyframes takes
precedence over the corresponding property track.
It is useful to remember that structure when making changes to the following properties of a
timeline element:
Animation mode
Result mode
Ease
Path mode
Enabled
Visible
Locked
Show UI Elements
Page 287 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Explicit property changes
Making a change to Enabled, Visible, Locked or Show UI Elements properties will trigger
changes down the element's hierarchy, explicitly modifying all children.

Inherited property changes
Animation mode, Result mode, Ease and Path mode properties follow an inheritance pattern.
This means that the special "Default" value means to use the value defined by the element
immediately above it in the hierarchy.
In the case of Animation mode and Result mode the value "Default" can be used at the timeline
level but since it is the top most element in the hierarchy it has a different meaning. If the special
"Default" value is used at the timeline level and all previous elements in the hierarchy were using
the "Default" value as well, it means to use the inherent value associated with the type of each
property track. The inherent values for each type are described in the tables below.

Animation mode inherent values
Property type value
Numeric
Continuous
Color
Continuous
Text
Keyframe
Boolean
Keyframe

Result mode inherent values
Property type Value
Numeric
Relative
Color
Absolute
Text
Absolute
Boolean
Absolute

Common Timeline Element Properties
Animation mode: used by property tracks and refers to the method used to interpolate
between property keyframes. It can have the following values.
Default: use the value defined by the element immediately above it in the hierarchy.
Continuous: a smooth transition between values using an easing function. Only numeric
and color properties can use this mode.
Keyframe: This mode will not do a smooth transition - instead it will change the
properties of the instances as the play head of the timeline reaches each property
keyframe.
Step: a smooth transition, but it only shows values that fall in the step defined by the
Step property of the timeline.
Result mode: how the values in each property keyframe in a property track are interpreted
when playing. Numeric values default to Relative mode, while text, boolean and color values
default to using Absolute mode.

Page 288 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Default: use the value defined by the element immediately above it in the hierarchy.
Relative: the timeline assigns values relative to the initial values each instance had,
before the timeline started playing.
Absolute: the timeline assigns absolute values, and will not be affected by the initial
state before the timeline started playing. In this mode the timeline overrides all other
behaviors that might be affecting an instance.
Ease: the function used to transition between each pair of property keyframes in a property
track. There are several built in functions to choose from. Custom ease curves can also be
designed in the Ease editor. The special "Default" value uses the value defined by the
element immediately above it in the hierarchy.
Ease editor: A link to open the Ease editor with the ease selected in the Ease property.
Doing this it is possible to edit not only a custom ease, but also a built in ease.
Path mode: only relevant for the X and Y properties. Sets how to transition between property
keyframe pairs.
Default: use the value defined by the element immediately above it in the hierarchy.
Line: interpolate between the starting and ending position of each property keyframe pair
to form a straight line.
Cubic Bezier: This mode will enable a few additional controls in the Layout View to allow
for transitions following a curved path.
Visible: used by tracks to toggle the visibility of the corresponding instance. This setting only
takes effect while Edit Mode is turned on. It is only relevant for the editor and will not affect
the timeline at runtime.
Enabled: used by property keyframes. A disabled property keyframe is not taken into
consideration when playing a timeline.
Locked: A locked timeline element and its children cannot be modified through the Timeline
Bar or Properties Bar. It is only relevant for the editor and will not affect the timeline at
runtime.
Show UI Elements: changing this property will turn off the UI elements shown in the layout
associated with the affected instances. It is only relevant for the editor and will not affect the
timeline at runtime.

Page 289 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMELINE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/timeline

A timeline can gradually change values of an instance over time to produce an animation. It
allows for the co-ordination of complex transitions of many different instances at the same time.
Although the most basic usage is to change the X and Y properties of an instance to produce
movement, a timeline can be configured to affect almost every property that can be part of an
instance. This includes all the common instance properties, instance variables, effect
parameters, behavior properties and plugin properties. Not all properties are supported by
timelines as some of them don't make sense, such as any property that is only used on start up.
Timelines can modify boolean and text properties, but since these can not be interpolated like
numbers or colors to achieve a smooth transition, they just change as the timeline's play head
reaches their property keyframes.

Adding Timelines
With the Timeline Bar open, create a timeline using any of the following methods:
Right-click the Timelines folder in the Project Bar and select Add timeline
Right-click a space in the Layout View and select Timeline►Add timeline (when the Timeline
Bar is open)

Nesting Timelines
With the Timeline Bar open and more than one timeline added to the project, use one of the
following methods:
Use the Timeline►Add timelines option from the Timeline Bar + split button.
Right-click any empty space in the Timeline Bar and use the context menu option
Timeline►Add timelines.
Drag the timeline you want to nest from the Project Bar into the Timeline Bar.

Timeline Properties
Name

The name of the timeline. It is a unique identifier and is used to refer to the timeline from an
event sheet.
Animation mode

Page 290 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Result mode
Ease
Path mode

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. These properties
follow an inheritance pattern.
Time

The current time of the main time marker. This only affects the editor.
Total time

The total time for the timeline to be completed.
Raw Step

The increments the current time marker can take in the editor.
When using the Step animation mode, this value will be used at runtime to produce the
correct increments while playing the timeline. When Steps per second property is changed,
this property is updated automatically.
Steps per second

This property is connected to the Raw step property, it is used to generate the correct Raw
step value in a more intuitive way. When Raw step is changed, this property is updated
automatically.
Show UI elements

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. Changing this property
will apply the change to every sub-element.
Use Step

Use this property to avoid using the step value in the editor. If disabled, scrubbing to preview
the timeline in the editor will be completely smooth.
Resize mode

Choose between Width & Height and Scale X & Scale Y. This tells the editor which pair of
property tracks need to be created when creating keyframes after making size changes in
the Layout View.
Loop

Page 291 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

When the timeline finishes, continuously repeat it from the start again. When the timeline is
nested this value is ignored and instead the value of the top most parent timeline is used.
Ping pong

When the timeline finishes, reverse the direction of playback, so it plays alternately forwards
and in reverse. When the timeline is nested this value is ignored and instead the value of the
top most parent timeline is used.
Repeat count

The number of times to repeat the timeline animation when not looping indefinitely. When
the timeline is nested this value is ignored and instead the value of the top most parent
timeline is used.
Start on layout

This is a dropdown that gives the option to choose at the start of which layout the timeline
should start playing automatically. This property serves as a shortcut for the simple use
case of just starting playback of a timeline at the beginning of a layout, without any further
manipulation.
Transform

Whether a timeline's position keyframes should be transformed by changes produced by
ancestors in it's own hierarchy, or not. Enabled by default.
Use system timescale

Whether a timeline will be affected by the system timescale or not. When disabled a timeline
will continue producing changes regardless of the current system timescale.

Page 292 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMELINE TRACK
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/track

In the Timeline Bar, a track is represented as a row with an icon of the corresponding instance.
Tracks can be moved to and from track folders or the root of the timeline by dragging and
dropping. A timeline can have many different tracks in its hierarchy, one for each instance added
to it.

Adding Tracks
To add a track to a timeline follow any of these methods:
Use the + button in the Timeline Bar toolbar to bring up a dialog from which to choose
instances to add to the timeline.
Drag & drop instances from the Layout View into the bar.
Right-click some instances in the Layout View and select Timeline►Add to timeline.
Right-click some Timeline Bar empty space and select Track►Add instances.

Track Properties
Name

The name of the track. This can not be changed and is automatically generated from the
object name and the instance UID.
Animation mode
Result mode
Ease
Path mode

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. These properties
follow an inheritance pattern.
Visible
Enabled
Locked
Show UI Elements

Page 293 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. Changing these at the
track level will apply the change to every sub-element.
Track ID

An optional identifier to be used in tandem with the Set Instance action. See the Timeline
plugin section of the manual for more details.

Page 294 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

VALUE TRACK
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/track/value-track

A value track is a special kind of track which is not tied to any instance.
Because they are not tied to any instance the value they interpolate doesn't immediately affect
anything, instead it needs to be queried at runtime using the Timeline plugin before it can be
used.
They are a little bit harder to use, but offer great flexibility in what they can be used for.
Value tracks can only have a single properly track and a timeline can have as many as needed.

Adding Value Tracks
To add a value track to a timeline follow any of these methods:
Use the split button of the + button in the Timeline Bar toolbar and choose the option
Track►Add value.
Right-click some Timeline Bar empty space and select Track►Add value.

Value Track Properties
Name

Must be unique in the timeline. Can be used to query the value of the track at runtime.
Animation mode
Ease

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. These properties
follow an inheritance pattern.
Enabled
Locked

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. Changing these at the
track level will apply the change to every sub-element.
Track ID

An optional identifier to query the value of the track at runtime.

Page 295 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

AUDIO TRACK
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/track/audio-track

An audio track is a special kind of track which can be used to trigger audio playback from a
timeline.
Audio tracks can have two types of property tracks, the main audio source one and another one
to control it's volume. A timeline can have as many as needed.
While the audio playback is connected to the corresponding timeline, it is not exclusively
controlled by it. If a value is provided in the Tag property of the audio source property track, then
the Audio plugin can be used to further control playback.

Adding Audio Tracks
To add an audio track to a timeline follow any of these methods:
Use the split button of the + button in the Timeline Bar toolbar and choose the option
Track►Audio audio.
Right-click some Timeline Bar empty space and select Track►Add audio.
Drag & Drop from either from the Sound or Music folders in the Project bar into the Timeline
bar.
The audio track itself doesn't have much functionality in on itself, instead it is the audio source
property track, which holds the more specific properties. Look into that for more details.

Audio Track Properties
Name

Must be unique in the timeline.
Animation mode
Result mode
Ease

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. These properties
follow an inheritance pattern.

These properties only affect the corresponding volume property track of an audio track.

Page 296 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enabled
Locked

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. Changing these at the
track level will apply the change to every sub-element.
Track ID

Audio tracks don't use this property.

Page 297 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMELINE PROPERTY TRACK
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/property-track

In the Timeline Bar, property tracks are represented as a row with an icon of the corresponding
property being affected by the track they belong to.
A property track represents the property of an instance that can be interpolated and is nested
inside a parent track. Property tracks can refer to common instance properties, instance
variables, effect parameters, behavior properties and plugin properties.
A track can have many property tracks in its hierarchy, one for each property of the instance the
timeline will be affecting. A property track can exist at the root of a track or nested inside
property track folders. They can be moved to and from property track folders or the root of the
parent track by dragging and dropping. They can not be moved outside of their parent track.

Adding Property Tracks
Property tracks are added automatically when:
A new track is added to a timeline.
A keyframe for a new property is added.
To add an empty property track, right-click a track or property track folder and select Add
properties.

Property Track Properties
Name

The name of the property track. This can not be changed it takes the same name as the
property being modified.
Animation mode
Result mode
Ease
Path mode

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. These properties
follow an inheritance pattern.
Visible
Enabled

Page 298 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
Enabled
Locked

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. Changing these at the
property track level will apply the change to every sub-element.

Page 299 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

AUDIO SOURCE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/property-track/audio-source

The audio source property track is unique to the audio track and has a few unique properties to it
that are not present in any other type of property track.

Audio Source Property Track Properties
Name

The name of the property track. This can not be changed it takes the same name as the
property being modified.
Start offset

The starting time in the timeline
Audio duration

The total duration of the audio source, this property can not be modified
Tag

An optional tag to be able to control the corresponding audio object by using the Audio
plugin
Enabled
Locked

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. Changing these at the
property track level will apply the change to every sub-element.

Page 300 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMELINE MASTER KEYFRAME
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/master-keyframe

In the Timeline Bar, a master keyframe is represented by marks in the same row as the track they
belong to.
A track can have many different master keyframes, one for each position in the timeline with
values that must be reached when animating. By themselves master keyframes only mark a time
- the values used for interpolation are kept by the property keyframes.
The main role of master keyframes is to serve as a control to modify all related property
keyframes at the same time. Any changes made to a master keyframe will be applied to all
corresponding property keyframes, including Enabled, Time, Ease and Path mode changes as
well as deleting.

Adding Master Keyframes
To add master keyframes, follow these steps:
Turn on Edit mode by pressing the Edit button in the Timeline Bar toolbar.
Move the current time marker to the position in the timeline where you want to create
keyframes. This can be done by either clicking on the time ruler or by dragging the red line.
Make changes to the instances you want to animate.
Use the S keyboard shortcut or right-click in the Layout View and select Timeline►Set
keyframes.

Master Keyframe Properties
Index

The index of the master keyframe in its track. It can not be changed. This value is updated if
the keyframe's position in the timeline changes.
Time

The position of the master keyframe in the timeline. This can be updated from the Properties
Bar or by dragging the keyframe in the Timeline Bar. Either change will update all property
keyframes under the master.
Ease
Path mode

Page 301 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enabled

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. Ease and Path mode
follow an inheritance pattern while changing Enabled at the master keyframe level will apply
the change to every associated property keyframe.

The Ease and Path mode values of master keyframes take precedence over the
corresponding property track. This is an exception on the inheritance pattern these
properties follow.

Tags

A space separated list of identifiers that can be used with a set of Timeline plugin conditions,
to identify when a master keyframe has been reached while a timeline is playing.

Page 302 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMELINE PROPERTY KEYFRAME
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/property-keyframe

Property Keyframe
In the Timeline Bar, property keyframes are represented by a mark in the same row as the
property track they belong to.
Property keyframes hold the values the timeline uses when it is playing. They are at the end of
the timeline hierarchy so any changes made at this level will only affect the property keyframe
itself.
A property track can have many different property keyframes, one for each position in the
timeline with values that must be reached when animating. Unlike master keyframes, property
keyframes cannot be moved and must have a parent master keyframe. If a property keyframe's
time is changed by either dragging it or changing the value in the Properties Bar, a new master
keyframe will be created at the new position along with new property keyframes to go with it.

Adding Property Keyframes
Property keyframes can be created following the same method to create master keyframes,
since property keyframes will be created for each property track at a given position in the
timeline.
To create property keyframes for specific property tracks, follow these steps:
Turn on Edit mode by pressing the Edit button in the Timeline Bar toolbar.
Move the current time marker to the position in the timeline where you want to create
property keyframes. This can be done by either clicking on the time ruler or by dragging the
red line.
Make changes to the instances you want to animate.
Right-click on the property track you wish to add a property keyframe to and select Set
keyframes.
If multiple property tracks are selected when using the Set keyframes option, property
keyframes will be created for all of them.
Either method will always create a master keyframe along with the property keyframes.

Property Keyframe Properties
Index

Page 303 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The index of the property keyframe in its property track. It can not be changed. This value is
updated if the keyframe's position in the timeline changes.
Name

The name of the property track this property keyframe belongs to. This cannot be changed
since it takes the same name as the property being modified.
Value

The value the property keyframe holds. This can be either numeric, text, boolean or color.
Depending on the result mode in use this will be Relative or Absolute.
Time

The position of the property keyframe in the timeline. Since property keyframes cannot really
be moved, changing this value will create a new master keyframe at the new position with
new property keyframes to go with it. This can be updated from the Properties Bar or by
dragging the keyframe in the Timeline Bar.
Enabled
Result mode
Ease
Path mode

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines.

Unique properties to angle values
Direction

Allows you to choose which direction the angle will take to arrive at it's final value. By default
Construct will attempt to take the shortest path but it can be forced to rotate clockwise or
anti-clockwise by changing this property.
Revolutions

The amount of additional 360 degree turns the angle should take before arriving at it's final
value.

Page 304 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMELINE TRACK FOLDER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/track-folder

In the Timeline Bar, track folders are represented as a row with an icon of a folder.
These are used to organize elements in a timeline, and don't have any impact in the playback. A
track folder can have nested tracks as well as other track folders. They can be moved to and
from track folders or the root of the timeline by dragging and dropping.
It is worth noting that the only specific property of a track folder is the Name. Every other
property in it doesn't have a direct impact on the folder itself and exists only as a convenience to
make modifications in all of the items within it.

Adding Track Folders
Track folders can be added to the root of a timeline by doing any of the following:
Right-clicking any section of the bar which doesn't correspond to any other element of a
timeline and selecting Track►Add subfolder.
Using the split menu of the Timeline Bar + toolbar button, and selecting Track►Add
subfolder.
A track folder can be created directly as a subfolder by right-clicking another track folder.

Track Folder Properties
Name

The name of the track folder.
Animation mode
Result mode
Ease
Path mode

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. These properties
follow an inheritance pattern.
Visible
Enabled
Locked

Page 305 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Show UI Elements

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. Changing these at the
track folder level will apply the change to every sub-element.

Page 306 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMELINE PROPERTY TRACK
FOLDER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/property-track-folder

In the Timeline Bar, property track folders are represented as a row with an icon of a folder.
These are used to organize elements in a track, and don't have any impact in the playback of the
timeline. A property track folder can have nested property tracks as well as other property track
folders. They can be moved to and from property track folders or the root of the corresponding
track by dragging and dropping. Property track folders can not be moved outside their
corresponding track.
When adding effect parameters or behavior properties to a timeline, the created property tracks
will be placed inside a special property track folder which is automatically given the name of the
effect or behavior. The folder can not be renamed and only accepts property tracks which refer
to the same effect or behavior.
It is worth noting that the only specific property of a property track folder is the Name. Every
other property in it doesn't have a direct impact on the folder itself and exists only as a
convenience to make modifications in all of the items within it.

Adding Property Track Folders
Property track folders can be added to the root of a track by right-clicking a track and selecting
Add subfolder. They can also be created as sub folders by right-clicking another property track
folder.

Property Track Folder Properties
Name

The name of the property track folder.
Animation mode
Result mode
Ease
Path mode

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. These properties
follow an inheritance pattern.

Page 307 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enabled
Locked

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. Changing these at the
property track folder level will apply the change to every sub-element.

Page 308 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMELINE FOLDER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/timelines/timeline-folder

In the Timeline Bar, timeline folders are represented as a row with an icon of a folder.
These are used to organise nested timelines in a parent timeline and don't have any impact in
the playback. A timeline folder can have nested timelines as well as other timeline folders. They
can be moved to and from timeline folders or the root of the timeline by dragging and dropping.
It is worth noting that the only specific property of a timeline folder is the Name. Every other
property in it doesn't have a direct impact on the folder itself and exists only as a convenience to
make modifications in all of the items within it.

Adding Timeline Folders
Timeline folders can be added to the root of a timeline by doing any of the following:
Right-clicking any section of the bar which doesn't correspond to any other element of a
timeline and selecting Timeline►Add subfolder.
Using the split menu of the Timeline Bar + toolbar button, and selecting Timeline►Add
subfolder.
A timeline folder can be created as a sub folder by right-clicking another timeline folder.

Timeline Folder Properties
Name

The name of the timeline folder.
Visible
Enabled
Locked
Show UI Elements

See the section on common timeline element properties in Timelines. Changing these at the
timeline folder level will apply the change to every sub-element.

Page 309 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FLOWCHARTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/flowcharts

Flowcharts allow you to arrange information in a tree like structure and establish logical
connections between each node in the tree. Additionally each node can hold an arbitrary amount
of information in the form of outputs.
In the editor flowcharts are edited using the Flowchart View.
At runtime the Flowchart Controller plugin is used to query the current node of a flowchart for
information, to navigate to different nodes and to react to changes in the state of the flowchart
and have the application respond accordingly (e.g. moving from one node to the next one).
Flowcharts themselves don't have any means to perform logic. Since event sheets are
already very good at managing logic, flowcharts are primarily meant as a tool to represent a
tree structure in a way which makes it easier to understand the relationship between the
nodes.

Page 310 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FLOWCHART
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/flowcharts/flowchart

The flowchart itself does not have a lot of information - in fact it only has a name which is used
at runtime by the Flowchart Controller to create instances of flowcharts defined in the editor.
Usually it is the nodes inside a flowchart that are of the main interest.

Adding flowcharts
Right-click the flowcharts folder in the Project Bar and select the Add flowchart option.
To edit a flowchart, double click on it in the Project Bar or right-click on it and select the Open
option from the context menu. Doing any of those things will bring up the Flowchart View.

Flowchart properties
Name

The name of the flowchart. Used at runtime to create an instance of a flowchart that the
Flowchart Controller can manipulate.

Page 311 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

NODE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/flowcharts/flowchart-node

The node is the main component of a flowchart. It represents a state the flowchart can get into
and can hold arbitrary data in the form of outputs, similar to having a small amount of Dictionary
data in each node.
The information a node holds can be queried at runtime using the Flowchart Controller plugin.

Creating nodes
To create a node in a flowchart, open a Flowchart View for it from the Project Bar and then rightclick in any empty space of the Flowchart View and select the Add option from the context
menu. Doing that will create a node at the position of the pointer.
For more information on further editing of nodes, see the Flowchart View section of the manual.

Node properties
Tags

A string used to identify a node at runtime. Multiple different tags can be assigned by
separating them with a space. The Flowchart Controller plugin has several actions,
conditions and expressions that can be used with one or multiple tags to target specific
nodes.
Start node

A boolean property specifying the first node a flowchart will be in once it is instantiated at
runtime.
Enable

A boolean property indicating if the node is enabled or not. A disabled node is ignored at
runtime and the flowchart state will not go past it. A disabled node can be bypassed at
runtime if it has a default output set.
Caption

An editor-only property. This is an optional name that can be given to a node to help
distinguish it from others.
Color

Page 312 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

An editor-only property. This is an optional color that will be applied to the border of the
node.
Preset

An editor-only property. Indicates if the node is a preset or not. Preset nodes can be used as
a base to create new nodes.
Outputs

A list of the outputs each node has.
Parent Index

In the case a node is connected to multiple parent nodes, this property appears and displays
an index that can be given to each parent. Used by some actions and expressions in the case
a node has more than one parent.

Page 313 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

OUTPUT
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/flowcharts/flowchart-node-output

Nodes can have an arbitrary amount of outputs, which have a name, an associated value, and
can be linked to the input of another node.

Editing outputs
For a more complete overview on the editing tools available, look at the Flowchart View section
of the manual.

Output Properties
Index

The index of an output is a read-only property and can be used by the Flowchart Controller to
query information about an output or to move to the next connected node.
Name

A string of a name for the output. This can be used by the Flowchart Controller plugin to get
the associated value or to move the state of the flowchart to the next connected node.
Value

A string which can hold an arbitrary value with no specific purpose, to be accessed via event
sheets.
Enable

A boolean property indicating if the output is enabled or not. A disabled output is ignored at
runtime, it can not be followed and it's information can not be queried. It is not considered
when using the for loop condition to iterate the outputs of a node.
Default

A boolean property indicating if the output is the default one or not. Default outputs can be
targeted by the Flowchart Controller ACEs. If a node doesn't have any explicit default output,
the corresponding ACEs don't do anything. This setting can also be used together with
disabled nodes to bypass them at runtime. When the runtime encounters a disabled node
with a default output it will attempt to follow all bypasses until it can land in an enabled node.

Page 314 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Color

An editor only property to help better identify links between nodes when there are many of
them.
Link mode

An editor only property to choose how to draw the link between nodes. Can either be a
straight line or use path finding to avoid overlapping nodes. Using path finding can be useful
when a link ends up going over other nodes.

Page 315 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

REFERENCE NODE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/flowcharts/reference-node

The reference node is a secondary type of node that can be added to a flowchart.
Unlike regular nodes, which represent a state and can have information, these are placeholders
for other flowcharts. When the flow reaches one, a new instance of the corresponding flowchart
is created and control is transferred to it.
This type of nodes are meant to help splitting up flowcharts in case they become too large or if