# Manual Construct 3  Parte 11 (líneas 1200113200)

## Resumen
- If enabled, the bullet will bounce off any objects with the Solid behavior. It will also calculate (línea 7)
- Set angle (línea 9)
- sets the object angle to the angle of motion, and if the object angle is changed, the angle of (línea 12)
- motion will be updated correspondingly. (línea 13)
- Step (línea 14)
- Enable stepping mode, which moves the object in small increments triggering On step to (línea 16)
- improve the accuracy of collisions. See Stepping bullets above. (línea 17)
- Enabled (línea 18)
- Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime (línea 20)
- using the Set enabled action. (línea 21)
- Bullet conditions (línea 23)
- Compare speed (línea 24)
- Compare the current speed of the bullet, in pixels per second. (línea 26)
- Compare distance travelled (línea 27)
- Compare the total distance the bullet has moved since creation, in pixels. This does not take (línea 29)
- in to account altering the object position with other actions like Set position. (línea 30)
- Is enabled (línea 31)
- Test if the behavior is currently enabled. When disabled it will have no effect on the object. (línea 33)
- On step (línea 39)
- When Step is enabled, this triggers as the object moves in small increments. Add an Is (línea 41)

## Contenido

If enabled, the bullet will bounce off any objects with the Solid behavior. It will also calculate
the angle of reflection to bounce off realistically depending on the object's shape and angle.
Set angle

If disabled, the behavior will never change the object's angle. If enabled, the behavior always
sets the object angle to the angle of motion, and if the object angle is changed, the angle of
motion will be updated correspondingly.
Step

Enable stepping mode, which moves the object in small increments triggering On step to
improve the accuracy of collisions. See Stepping bullets above.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.

Bullet conditions
Compare speed

Compare the current speed of the bullet, in pixels per second.
Compare distance travelled

Compare the total distance the bullet has moved since creation, in pixels. This does not take
in to account altering the object position with other actions like Set position.
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled. When disabled it will have no effect on the object.

Page 380 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On step

When Step is enabled, this triggers as the object moves in small increments. Add an Is
overlapping condition to test for collisions with improved accuracy. See Stepping mode above
for more information.

Bullet actions
Bounce off object

Make the bullet bounce off an object it has just touched. Since this requires the bullet have
only just touched the object, it is generally only useful in an On collision event. It will also
calculate the angle of reflection to bounce off realistically depending on the object's shape
and angle. If the bullet is not currently overlapping the given object, or is stuck deep inside it,
this action will have no effect.
Set acceleration

Set the bullet acceleration in pixels per second per second.
Set bounce off solids

Enable or disable the Bounce off solids property.
Set angle of motion

Set the angle the bullet is currently moving at, in degrees. Note: when the speed is 0, the
angle of motion is always 0 and cannot be changed, since there is no motion. Therefore
setting the angle of motion then the speed does not work if the object is stopped. Instead,
set the speed first and then the angle of motion.
Set distance travelled

Simply changes the counter returned by the DistanceTravelled expression. The counter still
increments according to the movement of the object.
Set enabled

Enable or disable the movement. If disabled, the behavior will stop moving the bullet, but will
remember the current speed, acceleration etc. if enabled again.
Set gravity

Set the acceleration caused by gravity, in pixels per second per second.
Set speed

Page 381 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set the bullet's current movement speed, in pixels per second.
Stop stepping

When Step is enabled, prevent the object advancing any further. This is usually done when a
collision is detected with Is overlapping. Note that destroying the object also automatically
stops stepping. For more information, see Stepping bullets above.

Bullet expressions
Acceleration

Get the bullet's current acceleration in pixels per second per second.
AngleOfMotion

Get the angle the bullet is currently moving at (which can be different to the object's angle), in
degrees. Note when the object is stopped (with a speed of 0), the angle of motion is always
0.
DistanceTravelled

Return the total distance the bullet has moved since creation, in pixels. This does not take in
to account altering the object position with other actions like Set position.
Gravity

Return the currently set gravity property, in pixels per second per second.
Speed

Get the bullet's current movement speed in pixels per second.

Page 382 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CAR BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/car

The Car behavior allows an object to accelerated forwards and backwards and have steering. It
also has a simple "drift" feature where the object can "skid" around corners (by pointing in a
different direction to that it is moving in). For an example of the Car behavior see the Driving
example in the Start Page.
By default the object is controlled by the arrow keys on the keyboard (Up to accelerate, down to
brake, left and right to steer). To set up custom or automatic controls, see the behavior reference
summary.
The Car behavior will bounce off any objects with the Solid behavior. The effect on the
movement depends on the angle of impact - glancing collisions nudge the car off its current
path, whereas head-on collisions stop it more or less dead. The amount of speed lost depends
on the Friction property.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the ICarBehaviorInstance script interface.

Car properties
Max speed

The maximum speed, in pixels per second, the car can accelerate to.
Acceleration

The rate the car accelerates at, in pixels per second per second.
Deceleration

The rate the car brakes at, in pixels per second per second.
Steer speed

The rate the car rotates at when steering, in degrees per second.
Drift recover

The rate the car recovers from drifts, in degrees per second. In other words, this is the rate
the angle of motion catches up with the object angle. The angle of motion can never be more
Page 383 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

than 90 degrees off the object angle. If the drift recover is greater or equal to the Steer speed,
no drifting ever occurs. The lower the drift recover, the more the car will drift on corners.
Friction

The amount of speed lost when colliding with a solid, from 0 (stop dead) to 1 (speed not
affected at all). For example, to slow the speed down by half when colliding with a solid, set
Friction to 0.5.
Turn while stopped

Set whether or not the object can rotate while not moving. When enabled, the rotate speed is
always the same regardless of the speed. When disabled, the rotate speed adjusts with the
movement speed resulting in a fixed turning circle, which also means the object cannot
rotate while stopped.
Set angle

If enabled, the behavior will set the object's angle, otherwise the behavior never changes the
object's angle.
Default controls

If enabled, the car movement is controlled by the arrow keys on the keyboard. Disable to set
custom controls. For more information see the behavior reference summary.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.

Car conditions
Compare speed

Compare the current speed of the car, in pixels per second.
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled. When disabled it will have no effect on the object.
Is moving

True if the current speed is non-zero. Invert to test if the car is stopped.

Car actions
Page 384 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set acceleration
Set deceleration
Set default controls
Set drift recover
Set friction
Set max speed
Set steer speed
Set turn while stopped

Set the corresponding properties. See Car properties for more information.
Set enabled

Enable or disable the movement. If disabled, the movement no longer has any effect on the
object.
Set ignoring input

Set whether input is being ignored. If input is ignored, pressing any of the control keys has no
effect. However, unlike disabling the behavior, the object can continue to move.
Set speed

Set the current speed the object is moving at, in pixels per second.
Simulate control

Simulate one of the movement controls being held down. Useful when disabling Default
controls. See the behavior reference summary for more information.
Stop

A shortcut for setting the speed to zero.

Car expressions
Acceleration
Deceleration
DriftRecover
Friction
MaxSpeed
SteerSpeed

Page 385 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Return the corresponding properties. See Car properties for more information.
MovingAngle

Get the current angle of motion (which can be different to the object's angle), in degrees.
Speed

Get the current object's movement speed, in pixels per second.
VectorX
VectorY

Get the object's current speed on each axis, in pixels per second. For example, if the object is
moving to the left at 100 pixels per second, VectorX is -100 and VectorY is 0.

Page 386 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CUSTOM MOVEMENT BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/custommovement

The Custom Movement behavior does not directly implement any movement for an object.
Instead, it provides features that make it easier to implement your own "custom" (event-based)
movement.
The way different movements are made is out of the scope of this manual section. Instead, it will
outline the basics of the Custom Movement behavior and what its features do. For an example
of Asteroids style movement using the Custom Movement behavior, open the Custom movement
('Asteroids' style) example.
For many games, the built-in behaviors like Platform and 8 Direction are perfectly sufficient.
Recreating existing behaviors with the Custom Movement should be avoided, since movements
are difficult and time consuming to implement correctly. The built-in behaviours have been
thoroughly tested, probably have more features than you imagine (like slope detection in
Platform), and are much quicker and easier to use than making your own movement.

Overview of custom movements
Most movements in Construct work by manipulating two values: the speed on the X axis (dx)
and the speed on the Y axis (dy). These are also known as VectorX and VectorY in some other
behaviors. For example, if an object is moving left at 100 pixels per second, dx is -100 and dy is
0. The object can then be accelerated to the right by adding to dx. This is also how most of the
other movement behaviors that come with Construct work internally (like Platform and 8
Direction).
The Custom Movement behavior stores the dx and dy values for you, and provides features that
help easily implement the math and algorithms necessary to make a movement.
Every tick the Custom Movement adjusts the object's position according to the dx and dy values.
This is called a step. The Custom Movement can also use multiple steps per tick, which can help
detect collisions more accurately if the object is moving very quickly. Each step will trigger On
step, On horizontal step or On vertical step depending on the Stepping mode property.

Custom Movement properties
Stepping mode

How to step the movement each tick. The number of steps taken (if not None) depends on
the Pixels per step property. The different modes are:
None simply steps the object once per tick according to its velocity.

Page 387 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Linear will step the object in a straight line towards its destination position, triggering On
step.
Horizontal then vertical will step the object to its destination first on the X axis
(triggering On horizontal step), then on the Y axis (triggering On vertical step).
Vertical then horizontal will step the object to its destination first on the Y axis
(triggering On vertical step), then on the X axis (triggering On horizontal step).
Pixels per step

If Stepping mode is not None, this is the distance in pixels of each step towards the
destination position each tick. The default is 5, which means if the object is moving 20 pixels
in a tick, it will move in four five-pixel steps.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.

Custom Movement conditions
Compare speed

Compare the current speed of the movement, in pixels per second. Horizontal and Vertical
compares to the dx and dy speeds respectively, and Overall compares to the magnitude of
the vector (dx, dy) (the overall movement speed).
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled. When disabled it will have no effect on the object.
Is moving

True if either dx or dy are not zero. Invert to test if stopped.
On horizontal step
On vertical step

Triggered for each step along an axis when Stepping mode is either Horizontal then vertical
or Vertical then horizontal. This can be used to accurately detect collisions with Is
overlapping.
On step

Page 388 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Triggered for each step when Stepping mode is Linear. This can be used to accurately detect
collisions with Is overlapping.

Custom Movement actions
Set enabled

Enable or disable the behavior. If disabled, the behavior will not modify the object's position.
Rotate clockwise
Rotate counter-clockwise
Set angle of motion

Adjust the angle of motion. This will calculate new values for dx and dy reflecting a new
angle of motion with the same overall speed. Note: if the overall speed is 0, then setting the
angle of motion has no effect, because there is no motion. A common mistake is to set the
angle of motion then the speed, and find that the angle is not used. Instead simply set the
speed first then the angle of motion and it will work as expected.
Accelerate

Accelerate either the overall movement, or movement on a specific axis.
Accelerate toward angle
Accelerate toward position

Accelerate the movement towards an angle or position.
Push out solid

Only valid when the behavior is currently overlapping an object with the solid behavior.
Automatically move the object until it is no longer overlapping the solid. This has no effect if
the object is not currently overlapping a solid. The following techniques can be used:
Opposite angle reverses (or 'backtracks') the object from its current angle of motion until
it is no longer overlapping.
Nearest moves the object in an eight-direction spiral out one pixel at a time until it is no
longer overlapping. The aim is for the object to end up in the nearest free space, but
since only eight directions are used it will be an approximation.
Up, down, left and right moves the object along a specific axis until it is no longer
overlapping.

Page 389 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Push out solid at angle

Only valid when the behavior is currently overlapping an object with the solid behavior. Move
the object from its current position at a given angle until it is no longer overlapping the solid.
This has no effect if the object is not currently overlapping a solid.
Reverse

Inverts the movement by flipping the signs of dx and dy.
Set speed

Set the current speed in pixels per second either for the horizontal or vertical axes, or the
overall movement speed. Setting horizontal or vertical speeds assigns dx and dy directly.
Setting the overall speed calculates new values for dx and dy such that they reflect the new
overall speed while keeping the same angle of motion.
Stop

A shortcut for setting both dx and dy to 0, stopping the movement.
Stop stepping

Only valid in On step, On horizontal step and On vertical step. Stop the current stepping for
this tick. The object can either go back to its old position (where it was at the start of the
tick) or stay at its current position (possibly half way between its start and end positions).
Note that in Horizontal then vertical or Vertical then horizontal modes, only the current axis is
stopped. The next axis will still continue stepping, unless you also use Stop stepping for that
axis as well.

Custom Movement expressions
dx
dy

Return the movement's dx and dy values, which are the speed in pixels per second on each
axis.
MovingAngle

Return the current angle of motion, in degrees, calculated as the angle of the vector (dx, dy).
Speed

Page 390 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Return the current overall speed in pixels per second, calculated as the magnitude of the
vector (dx, dy).

Page 391 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

DESTROY OUTSIDE LAYOUT
BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/destroyoutside-layout

The Destroy Outside Layout behavior simply automatically destroys an object if it leaves the
layout area. It only destroys the object if it is entirely outside the layout (i.e. no part of its
bounding box is inside the layout). The Destroy Outside Layout behavior has no properties,
conditions, actions or expressions.
This behavior is often useful to prevent bullets and other projectiles flying off the layout forever.
For example, without this behavior, if the user shoots some enemies and misses, the bullets
could carry on flying off outside the layout forever. As the game goes on, more and more bullets
build up over time, all moving further away forever. This gradually uses up more and more
memory and CPU power causing the game to slow down. This can easily be avoided by adding
this behavior to the bullets, so they are automatically removed when they leave the layout area.

Page 392 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

DRAG & DROP BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/drag-drop

The Drag & Drop behavior enables objects to be dragged and dropped either by mouse or touch.
On multi-touch devices, multiple objects can be dragged and dropped at once.
An object starts dragging when a mouse click or touch falls inside the object's collision polygon.
It is released when the mouse button is released or the touch ends.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IDragDropBehaviorInstance script interface.

Drag & Drop properties
Axes

Optionally axis-limit the movement, for example only allowing the object to be dragged
horizontally or vertically. The default is Both, allowing the object to be dragged anywhere.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.

Drag & Drop conditions
Is dragging

True if the object is currently being dragged by mouse or touch.
Is enabled

True if the behavior is currently enabled; false if disabled by the Set enabled action.
On drag start

Triggered when the object is clicked or touched inside its collision polygon.
On drop

Triggered when the object is being dragged, and the mouse button is released or the touch
ends.
Page 393 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Drag & Drop actions
Set enabled

Enable or disable the Drag & Drop behavior. If disabled, clicking or touching the object has no
effect and the object cannot be dragged. It also becomes 'transparent' to clicks and touches,
meaning other objects underneath it can still be dragged and dropped. If the object is being
dragged when it is disabled, the drag is cancelled, but On drop will not trigger.
Set axes

Set the Axes property, allowing changing which axes movement is limited to.
Drop

Stop dragging the object if it is currently being dragged. This also triggers On drop.

Drag & Drop expressions
The Drag & Drop behavior has no expressions.

Page 394 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FADE BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/fade

The Fade behavior fades objects in and out by changing the object's opacity over time. By
default, it makes an object fade out over 1 second then destroys it.
The Fade behavior is made redundant by the Tween behavior. It's recommended to use
opacity tweens instead of the Fade behavior. See also Superseded features.
Fades run in the following order. If any of the times are 0, the step is skipped.
1

The object fades in from invisible to its set opacity, over the Fade in time.

2

The object remains at its current opacity for the Wait time.

3

The object fades out to invisible, over the Fade out time.

4

If the Destroy property is enabled, the object is then destroyed.

For example, with each time set to 1 second, the object will fade in from invisible for 1 second,
wait for 1 second, then fade out to invisible for 1 second.
It is recommended to leave Destroy enabled. If disabled, the object still exists after fading out,
but is invisible. If many objects are using the Fade behavior, this can build up many invisible
objects over time, which gradually use more memory and CPU causing the game to slow down.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IFadeBehaviorInstance script interface.

Fade properties
Fade in time

Time, in seconds, to fade in from invisible. If 0, the fade in is skipped.
Wait time

Time, in seconds, to wait between fade in and fade out. If 0, the step is skipped.
Fade out time

Time, in seconds, to fade out to invisible. If 0, the fade out is skipped.
Page 395 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Destroy

If enabled, the object is automatically destroyed after the fade out finishes. If disabled, the
object is never destroyed by the behavior. Be sure to destroy objects yourself as necessary,
as a build-up of invisible faded-out objects can cause the game to slow down.
Enabled

If enabled, the object will begin fading as soon as it is created. Otherwise the fade will not
run until you use the Start action.
Preview Paid plans only

Enable to run a preview of the fade effect directly in the Layout View.

Fade conditions
On fade-in finished
On wait finished
On fade-out finished

Triggered when each stage of the fade finishes.

Fade actions
Restart fade

Run the entire fade from the beginning again.
Set fade-in time
Set fade-out time
Set wait time

Set the corresponding properties described under Fade properties.
Start fade

If the Enabled property is disabled, this will begin the fade.

Fade expressions
FadeInTime
FadeOutTime
WaitTime

Page 396 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Return the corresponding properties described under Fade properties.

Page 397 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FLASH BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/flash

The Flash behavior makes an object blink by toggling its visibility on and off for a period of time.
Simply adding the Flash behavior to an object does not do anything. You must use the Flash
action to make the object flash.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IFlashBehaviorInstance script interface.

Flash conditions
Is flashing

True if the object is currently within a flash duration.
On flash ended

Triggered when the end of the flash duration is reached, and the object has returned to
visible.

Flash actions
Flash

Make the object flash by toggling its visibility on and off. The On time is the duration in
seconds the object remains visible. The Off time is the duration in seconds the object
remains invisible. The object will alternate between these two states for the given duration in
seconds. The object is always set back to visible after the flash duration finishes.
Stop flashing

If the object is currently flashing, this stops the flashing and sets the object back to visible. If
the object is not currently flashing this action has no effect.

Page 398 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FOLLOW BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/follow

The Follow behavior allows an object to follow another object on a time or distance delay. More
generally, it records a short history of an object's changes, allowing it to also perform tasks like
record and replay, or rewinding time.
Only adding the Follow behavior to an object does not do anything. You must use an action like
Follow object before it starts changing the object the behavior has been added to.
You can find a number of examples using the Follow behavior in Construct's Example Browser,
such as the Follow behavior example and Follow record/replay.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IFollowBehaviorInstance script interface.

Follow properties
Mode

The following mode to use. Time mode follows on a time delay. Distance mode follows with
a distance delay. In Distance mode the X and Y properties are always followed, as it is
necessary for determining the distance.
Delay

The delay on which to follow the tracked object. In Time mode this is the delay in seconds to
follow. In Distance mode this is the distance in pixels at which to follow. The delay cannot
exceed the max delay.
Max delay

Determines the amount of data remembered in the same units as Delay. For example in time
mode, if the delay is 1 second but the max delay is 3 seconds, then the behavior is
remembering 3 seconds of history but following at a 1 second delay. The delay can be
increased up to but not past the max delay. Usually the max delay can be the same as the
delay, as additional data does not need to be remembered, but having a higher max delay
can be useful if the delay may be increased. Note that the higher the max delay the more
data is remembered and so the more memory will be used, so it's best to use the shortest
max delay possible.
History rate

Page 399 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
History rate

The rate in entries per second at which data about the object being followed is saved. For
example if the history rate is 10, then the state of the followed object is saved every 100ms.
When following, values in between entries are interpolated. Higher rates use more memory
and have a higher performance overhead, but have a smoother movement; for efficiency it is
best to choose the lowest rate which produces acceptably smooth movement. The default of
30 usually produces good results.
Follow X
Follow Y
Follow Z elevation
Follow width
Follow height
Follow angle
Follow opacity
Follow visiblity
Follow destroyed

Choose the built-in properties to follow. For example if following X and Y is enabled, but not
width and height, then if the followed object both moves and changes size, the following
object will only move but not change size. Following more properties uses more memory.
Following the destroyed state means that if the followed object is destroyed, then the
following object will also be destroyed at the same point.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled.

Follow conditions
Has follow data

True if the behavior has enough data to be able to start following on a delay. For example if
the behavior starts following an object on a 5 second time delay, then for the first 5 seconds
there is no follow data and so the object will not be updated, and Has follow data will be
false. Once 5 seconds has elapsed it then starts updating and Has follow data will be true.
Note that if following starts with From current position enabled, then that counts as having
follow data immediately.
Is following object

True if any object has been set to be followed. If false then the behavior is not recording any
information.

Page 400 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Is paused

True after using the Set paused action to pause following.
Is following custom property

Test if a particular custom property, specified by a string, is currently enabled for following.
Compare delay
Compare max delay
Compare history rate
Compare mode
Is enabled
Is following property

Test the current values of the behavior properties. See Follow properties for more details.

Follow actions
Follow object

Begin following the specified object. This starts recording the changes over time of the
specified object, and after the delay period has passed, it will then start following the
changes for the enabled properties. Until the delay has passed, Has follow data will be false
as there is not yet any data to follow. Alternatively the From current position setting can be
enabled, which allows immediate following. When enabled this creates an initial history entry
based on the following object's current state in the past at the delay time. Therefore Has
follow data is immediately true and the object is able to immediately start updating. This has
the effect of interpolating from the following object's starting position to the followed
object's starting position over the delay time.
Follow self

Begin following the object the behavior belongs to. This records the changes over time of the
current object. In this mode, the behavior does not update the object; it merely records the
history. Note that as with following a different object, data is only retained up to the max
delay. The history can then be saved to JSON and later replayed, or it can stop following and
then set the delay to move to a previous position.
Stop following

Stops recording the history of a followed object. Any recorded history of the object that was
followed is still preserved, and it will still continue following changes up until the time that
this action was used.

Page 401 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Clear history

Erases any recorded history about the object being followed. This will cause Has follow data
to become false and stop updating the object until enough data has been collected again.
This is useful for resetting the behavior.
Set paused

Set whether following is paused. While paused, no further history is recorded, but it also
stops advancing the follow time. Upon resuming, the behavior will restart recording the
history of the followed object. If the followed object has substantially changed while
following was paused, then it will skip to the new position as it follows the history, as no
changes in between will have been saved.
Rewind history

Rewinds the follow time, deletes history entries past that time, and then continues recording
history. Note that it is not possible to rewind further than the max delay, as data beyond that
time is erased. This action allows for implementing a 'rewind time' feature where an object
can go backwards in time and then continue from a different location, while preserving the
history prior to the time it continued from.
Load history JSON

Load the recorded history of the object being followed from a string of data in JSON format
previously saved by the HistoryAsJSON expression. This also sets the delay to the time of the
oldest history entry loaded, so it then immediately follows the amount of data originally
saved. This allows for creating a record/replay feature.
Start following custom property
Stop following custom property

Start or stop following a custom property. This allows the Follow behavior to track a custom
value other than one of the built-in properties such as the X and Y position. Multiple custom
properties can be followed, each identified by a case-insensitive string. The interpolation
mode of the custom property determines how values in between history entries are
determined. Step does not interpolate and just uses the previous history entry. Linear uses
linear interpolation, suitable for linear values like position and size. Angular uses angular
interpolation, suitable for rotational values like angles. Note that if a custom property value is
a string, then only Step mode is supported. The value to be recorded must be set with Set
custom property value, and then the value to be followed can be retrieved with the
DelayedCustomPropertyValue expression.
Set custom property value

Page 402 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set the current value of a custom property that is being followed. The custom property is
identified by a case-insensitive string. The value can be either a string or a number, but if it is
a string then it will only use Step interpolation mode. This action should be used every tick
while following a custom property, so that the latest value is available when the behavior
decides to add a history entry.
Set delay
Set enabled
Set following property
Set history rate
Set max delay
Set mode

Set the corresponding behavior properties. See Follow properties for more details.
Set property interpolation

Change the interpolation mode of one of the built-in properties. Generally this is used to
change one of the built-in properties from smooth interpolation to step interpolation. For
example mirroring an object with the Platform behavior should always update the width
instantly, and not interpolate any in-between values.

Follow expressions
FollowUID

The UID of the current object being followed, or -1 if no object to follow has been set.
HistoryAsJSON(MaxDelay)

Save the current recorded history of the followed object to a string in JSON format. This can
then be loaded again later using the Load history JSON action. The MaxDelay parameter can
be used to save only a portion of the most recent history, rather than all the recorded history,
suitable for a record/replay feature when the recording duration is less than the behavior's
max delay. If MaxDelay is 0, then it saves all the history.
DelayedCustomPropertyValue(CustomProperty)

Retrieve the current value to be followed for a custom property, specified by a caseinsensitive string.
Delay
MaxDelay
HistoryRate

Page 403 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Return the corresponding behavior properties. For more information, see Follow properties.

Page 404 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

JUMP-THRU BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/jump-thru

The Jump-thru behavior allows the Platform behavior to stand on the object, and jump on to it
from underneath. This differs from the Solid behavior, which the Platform behavior can stand on,
but not jump on to from underneath. The image below illustrates the difference.
Note the Jump-thru behavior does not support slopes. Any slopes in your game should use the
Solid behavior instead.

Jump-thru vs. Solid behaviors

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IJumpthruBehaviorInstance script interface.

Jump-thru properties
Enabled

Set whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, the object no longer acts
as if it is a Jump-thru, and the Platform behavior will always fall through it.

Jump-thru conditions
Is enabled

True if the behavior is currently enabled. This can be changed by the Enabled property or the
Set enabled action.

Jump-thru actions
Page 405 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set enabled

Enable or disable the Jump-thru behavior for this object.

Page 406 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

LINE-OF-SIGHT BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/line-of-sight

The Line-of-sight (LOS) behavior allows the ability to check if two objects can "see" each other.
More precisely, it will check if there are any obstacles blocking a line between the two objects.
Click here to open an example of Line-of-sight.
Line-of-sight can also perform Raycasting. Normal line-of-sight checks there are no obstacles in
a straight line between two objects. With raycasting, if there is an obstacle in the way, you can
find the exact position of the obstacle in the way, as well as the surface normal and angle of
reflection. The Instant hit laser example provides a demonstration of how to use raycasting.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the ILOSBehaviorInstance script interface.

Line-of-sight properties
Obstacles

Whether to use Solids as blocking line-of-sight, or Custom, where the objects blocking line-ofsight must be added using the Add obstacle action.
Range

The maximum distance in pixels that line-of-sight can reach. If an object is further away than
this distance, the object will never have line-of-sight to it, even if the intervening space is
clear.
Cone of view

The angle of the cone of view in which the object can have line-of-sight to other objects,
relative to the current angle of the object. For example if this is 180, then the object can have
line-of-sight to any objects anywhere in front of it, but never behind it. If 360, the object can
have line-of-sight to objects at any angle.
Use collision cells

Whether to use the collision cells optimisation when testing line of sight. Usually this is
faster, but in some cases over extremely long distances it can be slower.

Line-of-sight conditions
Page 407 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Has LOS to object

Check if the object currently has line-of-sight to another object. For the condition to be true,
the object must be within range, within the cone of view, and with no obstacles in the way of
a straight line between the two objects. This condition also picks the instances of the chosen
object that are in the line of sight. By default this checks if there is line-of-sight to the object
origin, but you can optionally specify an image point instead.
Has LOS to position

Check if the object currently has line-of-sight to a position in the layout. For the condition to
be true, the object must be within range, within the cone of view, and with no obstacles in the
way of a straight line between the two objects.
Has LOS between positions

Check if there is line-of-sight between any two positions in the layout, instead of using the
object's own position.
Ray intersected

Use after a Cast ray action to determine if the ray intersected with any obstacle.

Line-of-sight actions
Add obstacle

If the Obstacles property is Custom, adds an object type to count as an obstruction to line-ofsight.
Clear obstacles

If the Obstacles property is Custom, clears any object types added as obstacles with the Add
obstacle action.
Set cone of view
Set range

Sets the corresponding behavior properties. For more information, see Line-of-sight
properties.
Cast ray

Check for obstacle intersection between any two positions in the layout. This sets the Ray
intersected condition true or false depending on if the ray intersected an obstacle; typically
this can be checked in a sub-event after the action. If the ray did intersect an obstacle, the
hit, normal and reflection expressions are set according to the obstacle that was hit.
Page 408 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

This action ignores the range and cone of view properties, to allow raycasting anywhere
in the layout.

Line-of-sight expressions
ConeOfView
Range

Retrieve the corresponding behavior properties. For more information, see Line-of-sight
properties.
HitX
HitY

If Ray intersected is true, the position of the first obstacle the ray intersected, in layout coordinates.
HitDistance

If Ray intersected is true, the distance between the ray start point and the hit position.
HitUID

If Ray intersected is true, the UID of the instance that was the first obstacle the ray
intersected.
NormalAngle

If Ray intersected is true, the angle of the surface normal at the point of intersection, in
degrees.
NormalX(length)
NormalY(length)

If Ray intersected is true, return a position at a given distance along the surface normal
vector.
ReflectionAngle

If Ray intersected is true, the angle of the reflection at the point of intersection, in degrees.
ReflectionX(length)
ReflectionY(length)

Page 409 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
ReflectionY(length)

If Ray intersected is true, return a position at a given distance along the reflection vector.

Page 410 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

MOVE TO
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/move

The Move To behavior moves an object to a position at a maximum speed with acceleration and
deceleration. It also supports rotating the object so it turns towards its target, and can add
multiple waypoints to move to in sequence.
Click here to open an example of the Move To behavior.
'Move to' moves objects at a fixed speed, which means the time it takes to arrive at the
target can vary. If you need to move objects in a fixed time period, use the Tween behavior
instead.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IMoveToBehaviorInstance script interface.

Move To properties
Max speed

The maximum speed the object will move at, in pixels per second.
Acceleration

The rate at which the object will accelerate to the maximum speed, in pixels per second per
second. Use 0 to disable acceleration, meaning the object will immediately start moving at
the maximum speed.
Deceleration

The rate at which the object will decelerate towards its target, in pixels per second per
second. Use 0 to disable deceleration, meaning the object will come to an abrupt stop
without slowing down. The object will only slow down towards its last position; if there are
further waypoints to move to, it will continue accelerating up to the maximum speed. Note
that the deceleration also imposes a stopping distance during which the object must be
slowing down, which in some cases may prevent the object reaching its maximum speed.
Rotate speed

Page 411 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The rate the object will turn towards its target position, in degrees per second. Use 0 to
disable turning, meaning the object will always move directly towards the target. Note a slow
rotate speed results in a large turning circle, which can have awkward results if the object
has to navigate through several close waypoints. For this reason it's recommended to use a
high rotate speed.
Set angle

When enabled, the object angle will be set to the angle it is moving at. If disabled the
movement will not affect the object angle.
Stop on solids

If enabled, movement will stop if the object collides with something with the Solid behavior,
and trigger On hit solid. If disabled solids are ignored.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.

Move To conditions
Compare speed

Compare the object's current speed in pixels per second.
Is enabled

True if the behavior is currently enabled.
Is moving

True if the object has a target position it is moving towards.
On arrived

Triggered whenever the target position is reached. This is triggered for every waypoint if
there are multiple waypoints to move to.
In this trigger, Is moving is true if there are further waypoints to move to, and false if it
arrived at the last waypoint.

On hit solid

Page 412 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Triggered if Stop on solids is enabled and the object collided with a solid.

Move To actions
Move to position
Move to object

Start moving towards a position, given either by layout co-ordinates or an object (or
optionally an image point on the object). If Mode is Direct, any existing waypoints are
removed, so the object will immediately move towards the given position. If Mode is Add
waypoint, it will instead add a new waypoint to move to after all existing waypoints have been
reached.
Move along Pathfinding path

This is an alternative to the Pathfinding behavior's Move along path action. It only works with
a Pathfinding behavior on the same object, and like the Pathfinding action can only be used
after On path found triggers. The 'Move To' behavior uses a different algorithm for moving
along waypoints, and this action lets you use its approach instead of the built-in Pathfinding
movement.
Move along timeline
Move along timeline (by name)

Add all the points from the X and Y property tracks in a timeline track. The timing is ignored;
the positions are treated only as a sequence of waypoints to move along. This is useful for
using a timeline to visually design a path to follow in the Layout View. See the Move along
path and Move along curved path examples for a demonstration.
Set angle of motion

Set the angle the object is currently moving at, in degrees.
Stop

Stop any current movement. This also removes all waypoints.
Set speed

Set the current movement speed in pixels per second. Note this cannot exceed the
maximum speed, nor can it exceed the current speed while within the stopping distance,
since increasing the speed while decelerating would cause the object to miss its target.
Set acceleration
Set deceleration

Page 413 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set enabled
Set max speed
Set rotate speed
Set stop on solids

Set the corresponding properties. For more information see Move to properties above.

Move To expressions
MovingAngle

The current angle in degrees the object is moving at.
Speed

The current speed the object is moving at, in pixels per second.
TargetX
TargetY

The current position in layout co-ordinates that the object is moving towards. When multiple
waypoints are used, this is the current waypoint.
WaypointCount
WaypointXAt(index)
WaypointYAt(index)

Use these expressions to access the full list of waypoints added, given in layout coordinates.
Acceleration
Deceleration
MaxSpeed
RotateSpeed

Return the corresponding properties. For more information see Move to properties above.

Page 414 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

NO SAVE BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/no-save

The No Save behavior simply causes the object to be omitted from save states when using the
Save and Load system actions.
Normally all objects are saved and loaded with these actions. Adding the No Save behavior will
skip saving any data for the object when saving, and will not affect the object when loading.
After a load, all the same objects that were there before the load are still present, and with the
same properties.
It is a good idea to add the No Save behavior to objects which don't need to be saved, like
scenery and background objects. It can also be used on automatically updated objects, like
interface elements and text objects which update their text every tick. This will help make the
saves smaller in size, and also complete saving and loading quicker.
For more information see the tutorial How to make savegames.

Page 415 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ORBIT BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/orbit

The Orbit behavior moves an object in a circle or ellipse around a point. The object's initial
position is used as the point to orbit around.
