# Manual Construct 3  Parte 7 (líneas 72018400)

## Resumen
- EFFECTS (línea 7)
- Effects change the visual appearance of objects. They can be added with the Effects dialog. (línea 10)
- Effects can also be added to layers and layouts, although effects which blend with the (línea 11)
- background cannot be used on layouts. Effects are also sometimes referred to as shaders or (línea 12)
- shader effects, since this refers to the underlying technology. Below is an example of the Water (línea 13)
- effect on an image. (línea 14)
- An example of the Water effect (línea 16)
- Construct provides a library of over 80 effects. Adding effects also displays them in the Layout (línea 18)
- View if Preview effects is enabled in project properties. A number of examples of effects are also (línea 19)
- Multiple effects can be applied to a single object, layer or layout. In this case the effects are (línea 21)
- chained. The result of the first effect is processed by the second effect, then the result of that is (línea 22)
- processed by the third effect, and so on. (línea 23)
- Note that the Free edition is limited to using two effects in a project only. (línea 24)
- Blend mode (línea 26)
- The Blend mode provides a simple set of pre-defined ways to blend the object with the (línea 27)
- background. Click here to open an example of blend modes in Construct. The image below also (línea 28)
- demonstrates the available blend modes. (línea 29)
- The blend modes available in Construct (línea 35)
- If multiple effects are used, the blend mode is applied only to the last effect. For example with (línea 37)
- three effects, the effect chain is processed normally, and the blend mode is only used to blend (línea 38)

## Contenido

EFFECTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/objects/effects

Effects change the visual appearance of objects. They can be added with the Effects dialog.
Effects can also be added to layers and layouts, although effects which blend with the
background cannot be used on layouts. Effects are also sometimes referred to as shaders or
shader effects, since this refers to the underlying technology. Below is an example of the Water
effect on an image.

An example of the Water effect

Construct provides a library of over 80 effects. Adding effects also displays them in the Layout
View if Preview effects is enabled in project properties. A number of examples of effects are also
provided in Construct's examples which you can find by searching for Effects in the Start Page.
Multiple effects can be applied to a single object, layer or layout. In this case the effects are
chained. The result of the first effect is processed by the second effect, then the result of that is
processed by the third effect, and so on.
Note that the Free edition is limited to using two effects in a project only.

Blend mode
The Blend mode provides a simple set of pre-defined ways to blend the object with the
background. Click here to open an example of blend modes in Construct. The image below also
demonstrates the available blend modes.

Page 237 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The blend modes available in Construct

If multiple effects are used, the blend mode is applied only to the last effect. For example with
three effects, the effect chain is processed normally, and the blend mode is only used to blend
the result of the third effect with the background.

Changing effects at runtime
Objects supporting effects provide common actions to enable or disable effects, or set an effect
parameter. This allows you to switch effects or adjust effect parameters at runtime, allowing for
greater possibilities and creative uses. To enable or disable layout or layer effects, or change
their parameters, use the relevant system actions.

Performance
Using too many effects can cause poor performance, especially on mobile devices. Try to only
use effects when it is important to the appearance of the game.
Creating many instances of an object using effects can be very inefficient, since the effect must
be processed repeatedly for small areas. If many instances need to use an effect, sometimes it
is more efficient to place all the instances on their own layer, and apply the effect to that layer
instead. This can improve performance whilst producing the same visual appearance.
Never use effects to process a static effect on an object. For example, do not use the Grayscale
effect to make an object always appear grayscale. Instead apply the grayscale effect in an image
editor and import a grayscale image to the object, without using any effects. This has the same
visual result, and avoids performance-degrading effect processing. Effects like Grayscale should
only be used for transitions or making objects only occasionally appear grayscale.
For more information, see the manual section on performance tips.

Page 238 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FAMILIES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/objects/families

Paid plans only In Construct, Families are groups of object types. All the object types in a family
must be from the same plugin, e.g. all Sprite objects (and not a mix of Sprite and Tiled
Background objects, for example).
Families can help you avoid repeating events. For example, instead of having the same events
for the Enemy1, Enemy2 and Enemy3 objects, you can add them all to an Enemies family and
make the events once for the family. Then, the events automatically apply to all the object types
in the family.
The Families example in Construct demonstrates the advantage of this. There are seven kinds of
enemy, and they all need to be destroyed when the laser hits them. Without families, seven
separate events are necessary, as shown below:

Using families all seven events can be replaced with a single event:

This makes it far easier to create and maintain projects with lots of objects that need to work in
similar ways.

Page 239 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

How to create a family
Right-click the Families folder in the Project Bar and select Add family. The Edit Family dialog
appears.

Objects on the left are the objects in the project that can be added to the family. Objects on the
right are the objects already in the family. Double-click an object to transfer it to the other side.
You can select multiple objects by holding Control and clicking several objects, then clicking
one of the buttons in the middle to transfer them.
When done, click OK and the family will appear in the Project Bar. It can be expanded to show all
the objects in the family as well. The family, and the objects in the family, can be edited by rightclicking them and choosing options from the menu, like Remove from family or Edit family.
Objects can be added to multiple families. All events for the object's families will apply to the
object.

Family instance variables
Instance variables can also be added to a whole family by right-clicking the family name in the
Project Bar and selecting Family instance variables.
If you add an instance variable to a family, all the object types in the family inherit the instance
variable. For example, adding the instance variable health to the family Enemies in the above
example will mean BladeEnemy, BugEnemy, CrescentEnemy, FighterEnemy, SaucerEnemy,
ScytheEnemy and SlicerEnemy all gain a health instance variable. It will also appear in the editor
alongside each object's own instance variables. However in the Event Sheet View the family will
only show its own instance variables (those added directly to the family). This means any
instance variables you want to be available to the family's events must be added to the family,
and not to the objects in the family.
If an object type belongs to multiple families, it inherits every family's instance variables.

Page 240 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Family behaviors
Behaviors can also be added to a whole family by right-clicking the family name in the Project
Bar and selecting Family behaviors.
As with family instance variables, if you add a behavior to a family, all the object types in the
family inherit the behavior. The behavior will appear in the events for all the objects in the family
and the family itself. For example adding the Bullet behavior to a family called Bullets means the
bullet's Set speed action is available to every object in the family, as well as the family itself.
If an object type belongs to multiple families, it inherits every family's behaviors.

Family effects
Effects can also be added to a whole family by right-clicking the family name in the Project Bar
and selecting Family effects.
As with family instance variables and behaviors, if you add an effect to a family, all the object
types in the family inherit the effect. This can be useful for quickly applying effects to a number
of different object types.
If an object type belongs to multiple families, it inherits every family's effects.

Picking families in events
Families pick instances in the event sheet independently of the object types in the family. For
example, consider Family1 consisting of SpriteA and SpriteB. Conditions for Family1 will never
affect which SpriteA and SpriteB instances are picked. It will only affect which instances are
affected when running an action for Family1. Likewise, conditions picking SpriteA and SpriteB
instances will never affect which instances are picked in Family1. In other words, in the event
sheet families are treated like an entirely separate object type, which just happens to have
instances from other object types. This can be taken advantage of if you need a single event to
pick two separate lists of instances from the same object type.

Upgrading ordinary objects to families
If you make a lot of events forgetting to use a family and want to replace them, it's possible to
use the Replace Object feature to save you re-doing every event. The process is described in the
tutorial How to upgrade an object to a family.

Summary
Families are a very powerful feature which are essential to help keep large projects simple.
Instance variables and behaviors added to families are inherited by every object in the family,
which allows for sophisticated logic to be easily applied to many object types at once.

Page 241 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CONTAINERS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/objects/containers

Containers are an advanced feature to help build composite objects - that is, elements of your
game made from multiple objects. For example, a tank in a strategy game might be composed
of two parts: a sprite for the tank base, and a different sprite for the tank turret. This allows them
to rotate independently. Adding them both to a container then allows events to treat both objects
as if they were one, because they are always picked together.
Hierarchies are another feature that help with building composite objects (see Setting up a
hierarchy in the Layout View). Containers generally apply to picking groups of objects in
event sheets, whereas hierarchies generally apply to making objects move and rotate
together. Both features can be used together as well.
It is essential to be familiar with how events work in order to understand how containers work.

Creating a container
To add an object to a container, select one of the objects you want in the container and click the
Create link in its properties (which appears under the Container category next to the label No
container). A dialog opens allowing you to choose the object to add to the container.
Further objects can be added to a container by clicking the Add object link in the Container
category again. Objects can be removed by clicking the Remove link.

What containers do
Placing objects in a container has the following effects:
1

If one object in a container is created, every other object in its container is also automatically
created.

2

If one object in a container is destroyed, every other associated object in its container is also
destroyed.

3

If a condition picks one object in a container, every other associated object in its container is
also picked.

The first two points basically guarantee that there is the same number of instances for all the
objects in a container. In other words, containers are created and destroyed as a whole. Using
the tank base and turret container example, it is impossible to create a tank base without also
automatically getting a new turret for it as well.

Page 242 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The third point is the main purpose of containers. Containers are also picked in events as a
whole. This makes events treat containers as if they were one object. For example, if a condition
picks a tank base instance, it also automatically picks the base's associated turret.

Examples
In the following events, assume both TankBase and TankTurret are in a container.

In the above event, a TankTurret instance is also created since it is in a container with TankBase.
It might also be useful to add an action to set the position of the TankTurret to make it appear on
top of the base.

In this event, the associated TankTurret instance is also destroyed since it is in a container with
TankBase.

In this event, when a bullet hits the tank base, only its associated turret flashes. If the objects
were not in a container, all the turrets in the game would flash, as per the rules of how events
work (since no turret was referenced in the conditions, the action applies to all of them).
However, since the objects are in a container, when the TankBase that was hit by a bullet is
picked, its associated turret is also picked. This makes the event work as intended, and the event
treats both objects as if they were one. This is the crux of containers, and for some uses like
strategy games, there will be a large number of events taking advantage of this type of picking to
ensure objects work as units and don't accidentally affect other instances.

Placing container objects in a layout
In the Layout View, it's possible to create an instance in a container by itself. This appears to
break rules 1 and 2 under What containers do, since objects in a container must always create
and destroy together. However, the editor does not enforce this. Instead, any missing objects are
created automatically when the layout starts. It is a good idea to make sure you create enough
objects anyway so you can edit the object's position, instance variables, and other properties
from the Layout View.

Using containers in the Layout View
In the Layout View, when you highlight an instance in a container, the other instances in the
same container highlight in yellow to help you identify which instances are grouped together.
Page 243 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

You can also change the Select mode property to one of the following:
Normal: instances in the container select individually like normal.
All: instances in the container all select together whenever you select one of them. This is
like always multi-selecting every instance in the container whenever you click one of them.
Wrap: also selects all instances in the container, and then also wraps the selection so they
stretch and rotate as one. This means you can treat containers as if they are one object. For
more information see Selection wrapping in the Layout View.
You can circumvent the selection mode by holding Alt and selecting an instance. This will let
you select just that instance even when Select mode is All or Wrap. This helps you change the
container as well, such as to add or remove another object type to the container.

Data storage objects in a container
It's possible to add data storage objects like Array and Dictionary to a container with another
object. Despite the fact these objects are invisible, a separate instance of the object is still
created for each container. This allows you to have a dedicated Array or Dictionary for each
instance of an object. This can be very useful as an advanced substitute for instance variables,
such as if a very large number of variables is necessary, or if variables need to be dynamically
added and removed.

Page 244 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TEMPLATES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/objects/templates

Templates help managing instances in larger projects. The main uses for them are:
1

Conveniently updating properties for multiple instances across the project in the editor. This can
prove to be time consuming and prone to error if done individually. Using templates you can
declare a single instance to be the source template and other instances of the same object type
to be replicas of it. After doing so, changing the template will also change all replicas, even
across layouts.

2

A template can be used as a preset when creating an instance at runtime using the Create
Object action. Doing this is can help avoid needing lots of initialization actions and makes it
easier to make changes to existing presets or add new ones later on.

3

Using templates it is possible to define different hierarchies in the editor, and then choose which
one to create at runtime.

Terms
1

Template: an instance that has been set to be the source of property values for other instances
to use. These include common properties, plugin properties, instance variables, behavior
properties and effect parameters. A template can also be used to decide what values a new
instance created at runtime should take when using the Create Object action. Modifying a
template in the Layout view or through the Properties bar will immediately be reflected in all
instances which are replicas of it.

2

Replica: an instance that has been set to use an instance already defined as a template. A
replica takes its values from the source template unless they are explicitly modified, at which
point the replica's own values are used instead.

Template properties
The Properties Bar shows relevant properties in the Template section. The properties that can be
shown there are:
Template mode: an instance can be turned into a template by selecting the Template value
from the drop-down list. If there are any instances in the object type which have already been
set to be a template, then the Replica value will also be available in the drop down menu.
Template name: the name to identify a template. This is only shown when Template mode is
set to Template.
Template source: the name of the template a replica is using. This is only shown when
Template mode is set to Replica, and only lists templates of the same object type.

Page 245 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The three main cases of using templates in the Properties Bar are shown in the images below.
Click the thumbnails to expand them.

Properties for an instance not using templates.

Properties for an instance set to be a template.

Properties for an instance set to be a replica. Note the highlighting on the properties to identify which are from
the template, and which have been overridden for this instance.

Setting up templates and replicas
To start using this feature the first thing you will need to do is set an instance to be a template.
To do that, follow these steps:
1

Select the instance you want to be a template in the Layout View.

2

Pick the Template option from the Template mode dropdown in the Properties bar.

3

The Template name input will appear.

4

Give the template a name using the Template name text input.

Page 246 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

That's all you need to do to set an instance to be a template.
Now let's see how to set other instances to use the template in the editor:
1

Select the instance you want to be a replica of the template in the Layout View. The instance
must be of the same object type as the template.

2

Pick the Replica option from the Template mode dropdown.

3

The Template source dropdown will appear.

4

Select the template the replica instance should use from the Template source dropdown.

After doing that you will notice that some of the properties in the Properties bar are highlighted.
This indicates that the instance is taking that value from the source template.

Page 247 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

From now on, when the template is modified, all replicas using it will reflect the changes. If a
replica is modified individually, the affected property will stop taking the value from the template
and instead will take the value from the replica itself. To indicate this, the property will be
highlighted in a different color.

Miscellaneous options
Layout view context menu options

Page 248 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Template context menu

Replica context menu

Template instance context menu options:
Apply template to all replicas►Properties only forces all replicas using this template to
use the values of the template.
Apply template to all replicas►Hierarchy►Replace whole replaces the whole hierarchy
of each replica with that of the template. This creates and deletes instances as
necessary.
Apply template to all replicas►Hierarchy►Modify existing updates the existing hierarchy
of each replica to match as best as possible the hierarchy of the template. This does not
create or delete any instances.
Select all replicas in layout selects all replicas of this template in the layout.
Open all layouts with replicas opens all layouts with replicas of the selected template.
Replica instance context menu options:
Apply template►Properties only forces the selected replica to use the values from the
template.
Apply template►Hierarchy►Replace whole replaces the whole hierarchy of the replica
with that of the template. This creates and deletes instances as necessary.
Apply template►Hierarchy►Modify existing updates the existing hierarchy of the replica
to match as best as possible the hierarchy of the template. This does not create or delete
any instances.
Select all replicas in layout selects all replicas of this template in the layout.
Open template layout opens the layout containing the template the selected replica is
using.

Properties bar context menu options
When a replica's property is modified and so starts using its own value, it's possible to
individually set it back to use the template value by right clicking on the property name.

Page 249 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Other Properties bar options
Propagate hierarchy

This property is only shown for template instances, if toggled all hierarchy related changes
will be propagated automatically to the replicas. Turned on by default.
Ignore hierarchy propagation

This property is only shown for replica instances, if toggled any changes automatically
propagated from a template are ignored. Turned off by default.
Replace hierarchy

When used from a template, will cause all the replicas to match the template's hierarchy.
When used on a replica, that replica matches it's templates hierarchy. Creates and destroys
instances as needed. Using this option ignores Propagate hierarchy and Ignore hierarchy
propagation settings.
Modify hierarchy

When used from a template, will cause all the replicas to match the template's hierarchy as
best as possible. When used on a replica, that replica matches it's templates hierarchy as
best as possible. No instances are created or deleted. Using this option ignores Propagate
hierarchy and Ignore hierarchy propagation settings.

Runtime actions
The Create Object system action has an additional Template name parameter. When specified
the new instance being created will be a clone of the template instance, rather than an arbitrary
one.
As well as using the properties of the template instance, the new instance will also use the
hierarchy from the template if one exists. This means that it is possible to create different
hierarchies in the editor that use the same type of instance as a root, while also being able to
choose which one to create at runtime.

Page 250 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If the provided template name is not available, the Create Object action will behave as if the
parameter wasn't provided (using an arbitrary instance instead).

Dragging and dropping from the Project Bar
Instances can be created by dragging and dropping an object type in the Project Bar to the
Layout View. Normally this creates a default instance based on another instance in the project.
However it may be desirable to control which specific kind of instance is created when you do
this. Templates can also be used to determine which instance is created in this case.
When you create a template, selecting the object type in the Project Bar will now show two
additional properties in the Properties Bar:
New instance template: the template to use when creating a new instance from the Project
Bar. You can choose any template in the project for the object type. The created instance will
copy all its properties from the template.
New instance replica: check this to set an instance created from the Project Bar to be a
replica of the template. This means it will automatically update when the template is
modified. If unchecked, the new instance copies the template's properties, but it is not made
a replica, so it will not automatically update when the template is modified.
Also note that creating instances from the Project Bar will respect the Propagate hierarchy option
of the template. If enabled and you create the root instance of a hierarchy from the Project Bar,
then it will automatically also create the rest of the hierarchy as well.

Other considerations
By default, replicas do not use the position properties of the template. In most cases it is
more useful for these two properties to remain individual for each replica.
At runtime, replicas are no longer connected to their templates as they are in the editor. This
means that changing a template at runtime will not affect the replicas. This applies for
properties and hierarchy changes.

Page 251 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

EVENTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/events

Events are one of Construct's main features: instead of complicated scripting or programming
languages with fiddly syntax and difficult errors, you can define how your project works using a
simpler block system. The blocks are collectively referred to as events, although there are
several kinds of block making up an event sheet.
Construct's event system is likely to be unfamiliar to new users. Read How Events Work for a
summary of how to use them. Events are not cookie-cutter blocks that limit what you can do.
Instead they are designed to provide the basic tools you need to create sophisticated content.
The basic concept of events is that conditions filter the instances meeting the condition, then
the actions run for those instances only. This allows you to control instances independently,
especially when used with instance variables. A common misconception is that all instances of
an object type must act the same. That is not the case: the fundamental way events work is to
filter out individual instances, and run actions on just those that met the conditions.
Events are edited in the Event Sheet View using the Add Condition/Action dialog, the Parameters
dialog and Expressions dictionary.
A diagram of a simple event is shown below. (This does not include every feature of events - the
rest are explained in this section.)

Events typically consist of conditions that must be met, actions that run if so, and optionally
further sub-events that test more conditions, run more actions, etc. A simple way to think about
events is "If the conditions are true, then run the actions". However remember that a key feature
is that it also filters the instances matching the condition. For example if the condition Bullet
collides with alien is met, the action Destroy alien will run, and the Destroy action affects only the
instance involved in the condition.
Once you are familiar with events, you will likely find it useful to also use Functions to help
manage events as your project gets larger.

Scripting
You can use Construct's event system exclusively and still make complex projects with
sophisticated logic. However if you are interested in learning a programming language, you can
Page 252 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

also use JavaScript coding in Construct. You can also mix and match code and event blocks,
such as using a line of JavasScript code in the place of an action. To find out more see the
manual section on Scripting.
If you already have programming experience, you may be interested in extending Construct
using the Addon SDK.

Page 253 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

HOW EVENTS WORK
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/events/howevents-work

If you're new to Construct's events, this section will outline how they work. This is essential
reading for beginners! You will be able to make much better and more reliable games with a
thorough understanding of how events work.
To learn how to add and edit events, see Event Sheet View.
Events are designed to be easily readable and to intuitively "just work". However, they have
specific, well-defined ways of working which is described here.
Events work by filtering specific instances that meet some conditions. The actions then run for
those instances only. For example, consider the following event:

In this example, when a Bullet collides with a Monster the event condition is met. The specific
instances of Bullet and Monster that collided in the game are "picked" by the event. Actions only
run on the "picked" instances. If there are other instances of Bullet and Monster in the layout,
they won't be affected by the Subtract 1 from health and Destroy actions. It would be very
difficult to make good games if every bullet hurt every monster!
Another way to think about an event is "If all conditions are met then run actions on the
instances meeting the conditions".

Multiple conditions
Adding more conditions to an event progressively filters the instances to run actions on. For
example:

This event runs like this:
1

First all Monsters that are on-screen are picked.

2

Then, of those on-screen, it is reduced to those with less than 5 health.

3

The action makes all monsters that are both on-screen and have less than 5 health look directly
at the player. Monsters that are off-screen or have 5 or more health are not affected.

Page 254 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Therefore, using multiple conditions you can run actions on just the instances meeting several
criteria. Users from programming languages or other tools might recognise this as a logical
"AND". All conditions of an event must be met for the actions to run. If no monsters are onscreen or none of those on-screen have less than 5 health, the actions do not run at all.

Unreferenced objects
Have a look at the following event:

If the user presses Spacebar and the Player's PowerupEnabled flag is set, the action does
Monster: Destroy. Note that there aren't any conditions that filter or pick Monsters in this event.
In this case, all Monster instances are destroyed. In other words, if an event doesn't reference an
object in its conditions, actions apply to all the instances of that object.
Think of conditions as starting with all instances being picked, and progressively filtering them
from there. If there were no conditions, there are still all instances picked, so the action affects
all of them.

Picking resets between events
After an event ends, the next event begins from scratch. Its conditions will start picking from all
instances again.
On the other hand, sub-events (which appear indented) carry on from where its parent event left
off. A sub-event will further filter the instances left over by the event that came before it. If an
event has two sub-events, they both pick from the same set of instances the parent left behind the second sub-event is not affected by the first. In other words, events at the same indentation
level always pick from the same set of instances, and events at a lower indentation level are
always working with the instances handed down from above.

The System object
In Construct the System object represents built-in functionality. It has no instances. This means
most system conditions do not pick any instances: they are either true or false. If they are false
the event stops running, otherwise the event continues without the picked instances having been
changed. There are exceptions, though: if a system condition uses an object, such as Pick
random instance, that will affect the picked objects.
System actions do not run on any picked objects: they simply run if all of the event's conditions
were met.

Events run top to bottom

Page 255 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The order of events is important. Every event is checked once per tick (about 60 times a second
on most computers), and they are run from top to bottom in the event sheet. The screen is
drawn once every event has been run, then the process starts again. This means if one event
does something and the next event undoes it, you'll never see that anything happened.
The same applies within events: conditions are checked from top to bottom, and the actions run
from top to bottom.
However, triggers are an exception. See the green arrow to the left of Keyboard: On Space
pressed from the previous example:

This indicates the event is triggered. Rather than running once per tick, this event simply runs (or
"fires") upon something actually happening. In this case, the event runs when the user hits the
Spacebar key on the keyboard. It is never checked any other time. Since triggers run upon an
event happening, they aren't checked in top-to-bottom order like other events. This means the
ordering of triggers relative to other events is not important (except relative to other triggers of
the same type, since triggers still fire top-to-bottom).
There can only be one trigger in an event, because two triggers cannot fire simultaneously.
However, multiple triggers can be placed in 'Or' blocks (see the next section).

'Or' blocks
As mentioned before, all conditions have to be met for an event to run. This is called a 'Logical
AND', because "condition 1 AND condition 2 AND condition 3..." must be true. However, you can
change an event to run when any condition is true. This is called a 'Logical OR', because the
event will run if "condition 1 OR condition 2 OR condition 3..." are true.
Normally blocks work as 'AND' blocks. To make an 'OR' block, right-click the block and select
Make OR block. It will then display with - or - between each condition, as shown below.

Note that because OR blocks run if any condition is true, it's possible the event will still run if
some conditions were false and did not pick any instances. In this case the actions will still run,
but possibly with zero instances picked for any objects where no instances met the condition. If
any actions are run for objects with no instances picked, nothing happens.
Also note normally you can only put one trigger in an event, but you can put multiple triggers in
an 'Or' block, and the event will run if any of triggers run.
You can combine the block types by using sub-events. This allows you to build up more
advanced logic, such as an 'Or' block followed by an 'And' block.
Page 256 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Looping conditions
Some events loop, which simply means they repeat more than once. Note the green circular
arrow in the below example to indicate this.

This means when the layout starts, the Create object action repeats 10 times. The end result is
10 monsters are created at random positions in the layout on startup.
There can also be more conditions following the Repeat condition. These are tested on each of
the repeats as well, and must be true for the actions to run. There can even be more than one
loop in an event, but this is rare.

Families and containers
Note families Paid plans only pick their instances entirely separately from any of the object types
in the family. For more information, see the section Picking families in events in the manual entry
on Families.
Containers are an advanced feature that can also make groups of instances always be picked
together. For more information see the manual entry on Containers.

Summary
Using this event system it's possible to make sophisticated logic for games quickly and easily. It
is a very powerful alternative to scripting or programming languages but much easier for nontechnical people to use.
Although this section has described the essential parts of the event system, it still has not
covered everything. The rest of this manual section covers more features you can use in events.
The reference sections also cover all the conditions, actions and expressions in Construct.

Page 257 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

EVENT SHEETS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/events/eventsheets

Event Sheets are lists of events. They are edited in the Event Sheet View. All the event sheets in a
project are listed in the Project Bar.

Adding and removing event sheets
To add a new event sheet, right click an event sheet folder in the Project Bar (such as the root
level Event sheets folder) and select Add event sheet.
Event sheets can be renamed or deleted by right-clicking the event sheet itself in the Project Bar
and selecting Rename or Delete.
When adding a layout, Construct will prompt to ask if you'd also like to create an event sheet for
that layout.

Sharing events between layouts
Layouts have an associated event sheet to define how the layout works. However it is often
useful to use one event sheet for multiple layouts to prevent having to duplicate all your events.
There are two ways to share events between layouts:
1

Set several layout's Event sheet property to the same sheet.

2

Make a separate event sheet with all the common events on it, then include that event sheet on
other event sheets.

The second option is usually preferable since you are not forced to use exactly the same events
for different layouts - you can add a few extra events to customise how it works depending on
the layout.

Page 258 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CONDITIONS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/events/conditions

In events, conditions filter instances that meet some criteria. They appear to the left of the
event. All conditions in an event must be met by at least one instance for the actions to run. The
actions then only apply to the instances that met the conditions.

System conditions do not pick any instances: they are simply either true or false, unless they
specifically reference an object, such as with Pick random instance.
There are three kinds of conditions: normal conditions, triggered conditions, and looping
conditions. You can also create OR blocks which run if any condition is true, rather than all the
conditions. See How events work for more information.

Adding and editing conditions
When you add a new event, you are taken through the process of adding the first condition for
the event. This is described in more detail in the Event Sheet View manual entry.
You can add multiple conditions to an event block. To add another condition, right-click either an
existing condition or the event margin and select Add another condition. All conditions must be
met for the event to run, unless you set the event to be an OR block, in which case any condition
can be true for the event to run. To set an OR block, right-click the event margin and select Make
OR block.
To edit a condition, double-click it. You can also right-click it and choose Replace or Delete.

Inverting conditions
Conditions can be inverted, which flips the thing they test. For example, the condition Monster is
overlapping Player is true whenever a monster is touching the player. However, if inverted, it
appears with a red invert icon and means Monster is not overlapping Player.

Page 259 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Not all conditions can be inverted (e.g. triggers can't be, because the event doesn't make sense
inverted in that case).

Breakpoints
Paid plans only It is possible to place a breakpoint on a condition, to pause execution when it is
reached in the debugger. For more information, see breakpoints.

Page 260 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ACTIONS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/events/actions

In events, actions do something, such as create an object or go to another layout. They appear
to the right of the event.

Actions only affect the instances that met the event's conditions. See How Events Work for more
information.
To add an action to an event, click the Add action link that appears beside the event underneath
any existing actions. For more information on adding and editing events, see Event Sheet View.

Breakpoints
Paid plans only It's possible to place a breakpoint on an action, to pause execution when it is
reached in the debugger. For more information, see breakpoints.

Page 261 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

EXPRESSIONS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/events/expressions

In events, expressions are used to calculate sums or retrieve information from objects, such as
a Sprite's X co-ordinate. Expressions are entered in to the Parameters dialog when adding or
editing a condition or action which has parameters. The Expressions dictionary is also shown at
the same time and provides a dictionary of all the system and object expressions available in a
project.
Some examples of expressions, which can range from a simple number to a complex
calculation, are given below:
0
random(360)
Sprite.X
(Player1.X + Player2.X) / 2
Sprite.8Direction.Speed
Sprite.X + cos(Sprite.Angle) * Sprite.Speed * dt

Numbers
Numbers are simply entered as digits with an optional fractional part separated by a dot, e.g. 5
or -1.2 . Fractional numbers may begin with a dot, e.g. .5 .

Text (strings)
Text is also known as strings in software development, and Construct also sometimes uses this
naming convention. Text in expressions should be surrounded by double-quotes, e.g. "Hello"
The double-quotes are not included as part of the text, so setting a text object to show the
expression "Hello" will make it show Hello, without any double-quotes. To include a doublequote in a string, use two double-quotes next to each other (""), e.g. "He said ""hi"" to me" will
return He said "hi" to me.
Using quotes for strings only applies to expressions. Don't use them in other places like in
property values in the Properties Bar.
You can use & to build strings out of mixed text and numbers, e.g. "Your score is: " & score

Page 262 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

To add a line break to a string use the system expression newline, e.g. "Hello" & newline &
"world"

The StringSub system expression is also useful for building strings. You can use it like this:
StringSub("Hi {0}, your score is {1}!", "Sam", 100) which will produce the string Hi Sam,
your score is 100!. The first string can use placeholders like {0} , {1} , {2} etc. and these are
replaced by the following parameters. You can have as many placeholders as you like and they
can appear anywhere in the first string, so long as the appropriate number of parameters follow
on.

Operators
You can use the following operators in expressions:
Operator
+
*
/
%
^

Description
Addition
Subtraction
Multiplication
Division
Modulo (remainder after division)
Raise to power, e.g. 5 ^ 2 = 25

Build strings, e.g. "Your score is: " & score
=, <>, <, <=,
Comparison operators, e.g. score < 10 . Return 1 if comparison is true or 0 if false.
>, >=
&

?:

&, |

Conditional operator, in the form condition ? result_if_true : result_if_false . Allows testing
conditions in expressions. The condition counts as true if it is non-zero, and false if it is zero. E.g. score < 0 ? "Game

over!" : "Keep going!"
When used on numbers, & is logical AND and | is logical OR. (Note if either side is a string, & instead does string
concatenation.) These are useful combined with the comparison operators, e.g. score < 0 | health < 0 , which
returns 1 if either condition is true, else 0 for false.

Note a common mistake is to write comparison expressions like value = 1 | 2 with the
intent to match value to either 1 or 2. However this doesn't work as it is actually evaluated
as (value = 1) | 2 , which always evaluates as true. Similarly value = (1 | 2) won't
work as 1 | 2 evaluates to true, so it only tests if value is true. The correct way to test
this is using value = 1 | value = 2 .

Object expressions
Objects have their own expressions to retrieve information about the object. These are written in
the form Sprite.X (the object name, a dot, then the expression name). The Expressions
dictionary lists all the available expressions in the project, and they are further documented in
the reference section of the manual.
The expression Self can be used as a short-cut to refer to the current object. For example, in
an action for the Player object, Self.X refers to Player.X .
You can add a zero-based object index to get expressions from different object instances. For
example Sprite(0).X gets the first Sprite instance's X position, and Sprite(1).X gets the
second instance's X position. For more information see index IDs (IIDs) in instances. You can

Page 263 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

also pass another expression for the index. Negative numbers start from the opposite end, so
Sprite(-1).X gets the last Sprite's X position.

Behavior expressions
If an object has a behavior with its own expressions, they are written in the form
Object.Behavior.Expression , e.g. Sprite.8Direction.Speed .

System expressions
The built-in system expressions are listed in the reference. These include some basic
mathematical functions like sqrt (square root).

Page 264 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SUB-EVENTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/events/subevents

Sub-events appear indented beneath other events. They carry on picking instances from where
the "parent" event left off. They run after the parent event's actions have finished. An example is
below.

This event runs like so:
1

Test if any Monster instances are overlapping Player. If so, the instances involved are
remembered.

2

The top event's actions would run next, but it doesn't have any.

3

The second event (note it is indented) then tests if the Player's ShieldEnabled instance variable
is set. If so, it subtracts 1 from the health of the Monster overlapping the player.

4

The third event (also indented) tests if the Player's ShieldEnabled instance variable is not set
(see inverting conditions). If so, it subtracts 1 from the health of the Player.

In other words, monsters hurt the player when they touch, unless the player's ShieldEnabled
instance variable is set, in which case the monsters are hurt instead.
This works because the objects picked by the top event are remembered and also used for subevents. If the second and third events were not sub-events (not appearing indented) the second
event would subtract 1 from the health of all Monsters, because it was not referenced in the
event. (See Unreferenced objects in How events work for more on this.)
Sub-events can have other sub-events too, which makes sub-events very powerful and flexible
for setting up advanced game logic.
Note sub-events run after the actions only if the actions run - in the above example, if no
monsters are overlapping the player, neither the actions of that event nor its sub-events run at
all.

Triggers in sub-events
If a trigger is in a sub-event, all of its parent event's conditions must be true at the time the
trigger fires, otherwise the event will not run.
Page 265 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

There can also only be one trigger in a single branch of sub-events. In other words, one of the
events above a trigger cannot also contain a trigger.

Adding and removing sub-events
To add a sub-event, right-click the event margin and choose Add►Add sub-event. Alternatively
choose the Add sub-event option from the Add... link on the right, or press the S keyboard
shortcut.
Adding and editing conditions to sub-events works identically to ordinary events. You can also
create more deeply nested sub-events by adding a sub-event to a sub-event.

Page 266 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

EVENT GROUPS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/project-primitives/events/groups

Groups of events are mainly for organising events. They can be collapsed and expanded using
the arrow button in the title. They are edited with the Event Group dialog. To add an event group,
right click an event or empty space in the event sheet and select Add group or press the G
keyboard shortcut.

Some event groups from the Space Blaster game example in Construct 3

Events can be dragged and dropped in to and out of groups (be sure to drag from the event
margin, and not from a condition or action). Entire groups can also be enabled or disabled with
the Set Group Active system action, which is useful for situations like pausing the game.
Disabling unnecessary groups can also help improve performance.

Customising colors
You can customise the event group header's colors by right-clicking and selecting
Colors►Change text color or Colors►Change background color. To reset back to the default
colors (which are based on the current theme), select Colors►Restore default colors.

Page 267 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

COMMENTS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/events/comments

Event comments are simply notes to help you remember how events work and what they do.
They are very important to help you remember how things work in large projects! By default
comments have a yellow background and appear above the event they are describing.

To add a comment, right-click on an event or an empty space in the event sheet and select Add
comment or press the Q keyboard shortcut. Comments can be edited by double clicking on
them. You can make a comment with a line break by holding shift and pressing Enter.
Comments can also be added in between actions. The Q keyboard shortcut will add an action
comment if an action is selected. Alternatively you can right-click an existing action and select
Add comment, or use the Add... menu next to the Add action link.
If you use Construct a lot, you will find comments essential to help yourself organise and
understand large projects. Coming back to a project after a few months with no comments at all
can be very difficult, so don't underestimate the importance of comments.
Comments do not affect how anything works at all. They are solely for your information. Nothing
typed in to comments is exported to the game whatsoever.

Customising colors
You can customise the comments's colors by right-clicking and selecting Colors►Change text
color or Colors►Change background color. To reset back to the default colors (which are based
on the current theme), select Colors►Restore default colors.

Using formatting
Comments can include some simple formatting tags known as "BBCode". This involves using
square bracket tags such as [b] and [/b] around text to make bold, e.g. [b]bold text[/b] . The
tags you can use in comments are listed below.
Tag
Description
[b]...[/b]
Bold text
[i]...[/i]
Italic text
[s]...[/s]
Strikethrough text
[u]...[/u]
Underline text
[sub]...[/sub]
Subscript text
[sup]...[/sup]
Superscript text
[small]...[/small] Smaller text

Page 268 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Tag
Description
[mark]...[/mark] Mark text with highlight
[code]...[/code] Format as code snippet
[h1]...[/h1]
Header 1
[h2]...[/h2]
Header 2
[h3]...[/h3]
Header 3
[h4]...[/h4]
Header 4
[item]
Item bullet point: •

Page 269 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

EVENT SHEET INCLUDES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/events/includes

Event sheet includes allow you to include an event sheet on another event sheet. They are a sort
of automatic copy-paste of one sheet's contents to another. This is useful for sharing events
common to multiple layouts. For example, a game could use different event sheets for different
parts of the logic. You could have event sheets called Player input, Enemy control, Effects, and so
on. Then each level of the game can include these common event sheets in the layout's own
event sheet. This allows you to share the same events between multiple layouts, without having
to copy and paste all your events over and over again.

Includes can be added from right-clicking an empty space in the event sheet and selecting
Include event sheet or press the N keyboard shortcut.
Construct automatically prevents cyclic includes. If two event sheets both include each other,
Construct will use both event sheets but not include either more than once.

Page 270 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

EVENT VARIABLES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/events/variables

Event variables are number or text values which are either global to the whole project or local to
a range of events. They are modified using the Event Variable dialog. To add an event variable,
right-click on an event, another variable, or an empty space in the event sheet, and select Add
global variable or Add local variable, or press the V keyboard shortcut. Variables at the root level
of the event sheet (not indented beneath anything else) become global variables, whereas
variables in groups or sub-events become local variables.
Event variables are modified with the system actions in the Global & local variables category.
They can be retrieved by simply using their name in expressions.

Global variables
Global variables show a globe icon. They are always at the top level of an event sheet - they are
not sub-events or inside any groups.

Global variables store their values between layouts. Events in any layout can access any global
variable, even if it was created in a different event sheet that is not included.
Global variables can be moved to another event sheet by cutting and pasting them. After being
cut, references to the global variable will disappear because it has been removed; this is normal
and nothing to worry about. When you paste the global variable, the references that disappeared
will reappear again. Alternatively you can right-click the global variable and select Move to event
sheet....

Local variables
Local variables are variables placed nested under other events, or inside a group. They also show
with a different icon to global variables.

The main difference between global and local variables is local variables can only be accessed
in their scope. A local variable's scope is its level of sub-events. All other events at the same
level of indentation, or lower levels, can access the local variable. Events above it (less indented)
cannot access the local variable.

Page 271 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

For example, if an event variable is in a group of events, it becomes a local variable. Then, it will
only appear as an option for a variable in events inside that group. In other groups or in other
event sheets it does not appear at all and cannot be accessed. This makes the variable local to
the scope in which it is placed.
Local variables convenient for temporarily holding variables over a short range of events, such
as to calculate an average value (where a temporary sum variable may be necessary). It also
helps keep the project simple, since it prevents the need to create more global variables, which
appear everywhere in the project even if they are not needed everywhere.
The scope of local variables is designed to mimic how the scope of variables works in real
programming languages.

Function parameters
Function parameters are a special kind of local variable, scoped to a function event. For more
information see the section on Functions.

Static and constant variables
By default, local variables reset to their initial value whenever entering their scope (usually every
tick), like local variables in programming languages. If the variable is marked static in the Event
Variable dialog it will persist its value permanently, like a global variable.
Both global and local variables can be marked constant. This makes them read-only: they can be
retrieved and compared, but not changed.

Finding references to variables
Paid plans only You can quickly see a list of all references to a global or local variable by rightclicking it and selecting Find all references.... This will open the Find Results bar with a list of all
places in the project the variable is used. This is also helpful for identifying if there are no
references so the variable can be safely deleted.

Page 272 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

FUNCTIONS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/projectprimitives/events/functions

Functions are special kinds of event blocks that can be called from actions. They are designed
to be analogous to functions in real programming languages. Using functions can help you
organize event sheets and avoid having to duplicate groups of actions or events.

Adding a function
In the event sheet, functions are represented as a different type of event block. To create one,
use the Add function menu option instead of Add event.

When you select this the Add function dialog will appear for you to fill in details about the
function. Once created, the function appears in the event sheet similar to a normal event, but
with a special function icon and On function text at the top.

You can add conditions, actions and sub-events to functions, just like you can with normal
events. However functions do not run unless you call them in an action. Once you've added a
function to your project, a new special Functions object appears in the Add action dialog, next to
the System object.

Page 273 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

When you choose this object, it displays the functions in your project as if they are actions.
(There are also some other built-in actions that relate to functions.)

Choosing the function adds an action that calls (runs) the function.

Functions are similar to custom actions, but not associated with a specific object type or family.
This action will run the corresponding On function event, including testing its conditions, running
actions, and running any sub-events, and then return to the original action and continue from
where it left off.
Functions are global. This means you can call a function from anywhere in your event
sheets, even if the function is in a different event sheet that is not included in the event sheet
you call it from.

Using functions
A good example of using functions is to eliminate repeated sets of actions or events. For
example suppose you create an enemy with random properties every 5 seconds using this event:
Page 274 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Suppose there are two other events where you want to create an enemy the exact same way:
one when a player walks in to a trap, and another one every 4 seconds when in a boss fight.
Without functions, you may have to copy-and-paste the same actions multiple times, like this:

Notice this is becoming inconvenient. There may be times you need to repeat the actions in even
more places. If you want to make a change, you then have to find every place you repeated the
actions, and repeat the change. We can remove the repetition using functions. By creating a
CreateEnemy function which has the repeated actions, we can replace all the repeated actions
with function calls, like this:

Page 275 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

This works identically to the previous events, but is much shorter and more convenient. We can
call the CreateEnemy function anywhere in our events we want to create an enemy, and it uses
the same set of actions in the corresponding On function event.
It is often useful to split many parts of your events in to functions like this, so they can be
conveniently re-used across event sheets.

Parameters
When calling a function, you can also pass parameters. These are numbers or strings that are
made available to the function. For example, the CreateEnemy function from the previous
example could be modified to take two parameters: the X and the Y co-ordinates at which to
create the enemy. This helps functions to be made more general purpose by using extra