# Manual Construct 3  Parte 16 (líneas 1800119200)

## Resumen
- Decode text in the UTF-8 encoding in a range of the buffer in bytes, and return the string. If (línea 11)
- the UTF-8 encoding is invalid, or any part of the range is outside the buffer, an empty string is (línea 12)
- returned. (línea 13)
- GetAllText (línea 14)
- Decode all the data in the Binary Data object as text in the UTF-8 encoding. This is the same (línea 16)
- as using the GetText expression with a range that specifies all the data. (línea 17)
- BLUETOOTH (línea 23)
- The Bluetooth object allows communicating with nearby Bluetooth devices via the Web (línea 26)
- Bluetooth API. (línea 27)
- You can find a simple example of using the Bluetooth object in the Bluetooth - device name (línea 28)
- example. (línea 29)
- the Bluetooth object. There is plenty of information covering the general technology if you (línea 31)
- search the web. In particular it is useful to know about services and characteristics. (línea 32)
- Familiarity with Binary Data will also be useful. (línea 33)
- In Chrome, it can be useful to visit chrome://bluetooth-internals which provides a debug (línea 35)
- view of Bluetooth devices. This also helps identifying which services and characteristics a (línea 36)
- device exposes. (línea 37)
- As of May 2022, the Bluetooth object is not supported in Android apps. This is because (línea 39)
- Google have not added support for the Web Bluetooth API in the Android WebView yet. (See (línea 40)
- this issue for updates). However it should work in the Chrome browser on Android. (línea 41)

## Contenido

Page 542 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Decode text in the UTF-8 encoding in a range of the buffer in bytes, and return the string. If
the UTF-8 encoding is invalid, or any part of the range is outside the buffer, an empty string is
returned.
GetAllText

Decode all the data in the Binary Data object as text in the UTF-8 encoding. This is the same
as using the GetText expression with a range that specifies all the data.

Page 543 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

BLUETOOTH
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/bluetooth

The Bluetooth object allows communicating with nearby Bluetooth devices via the Web
Bluetooth API.
You can find a simple example of using the Bluetooth object in the Bluetooth - device name
example.
It's useful to have a basic understanding of the way Bluetooth works before starting to use
the Bluetooth object. There is plenty of information covering the general technology if you
search the web. In particular it is useful to know about services and characteristics.
Familiarity with Binary Data will also be useful.

In Chrome, it can be useful to visit chrome://bluetooth-internals which provides a debug
view of Bluetooth devices. This also helps identifying which services and characteristics a
device exposes.

As of May 2022, the Bluetooth object is not supported in Android apps. This is because
Google have not added support for the Web Bluetooth API in the Android WebView yet. (See
this issue for updates). However it should work in the Chrome browser on Android.

Specifying services and characteristics
When specifying services and characteristics in the Bluetooth object, there are a few ways of
identifying them:
Use their standard e.g. "heart_rate" for the standard heart rate service. See the standard
service names and standard characteristic names. Note the prefixes are omitted, e.g.
org.bluetooth.characteristic.gap.device_name is specified just as gap.device_name in the
Bluetooth object.
Use their 16-bit hexadecimal IDs e.g. "0x1802" . These can also be found in the linked
standard lists, or vendor-specific IDs used.
Use the full UUID, e.g. "c48e6067-5295-48d3-8d5c-0395f61792b1" . This is usually used to refer
to a vendor specific characteristic or service.
Where a standard service is specified as a UUID, Construct will turn it back in to its standard
name, e.g. gap.device_name.
Page 544 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Device IDs can also usually be omitted: if left empty, the first connected device will be used.

Bluetooth conditions
Is device connected

Test if a bluetooth device is currently connected by its device ID.
Is supported

True if bluetooth is supported on the current platform. The plugin will not work if this is false.
On device connected
On device disconnected

Triggered as devices connect (after Request device completes successfully) and disconnect.
The DeviceID expression is set to the ID of the relevant device.
On request device failed

Triggered after the Request device action if the user cancels or a Bluetooth connection was
unable to be established.
On characteristic notification
On any characteristic notification

Triggered after starting notifications for a characteristic whenever a notification is received.
The notification data is loaded in to the provided Binary Data object. The any variant is
triggered for all characteristics rather than a specific one, and sets the CharacteristicID
expression accordingly
On characteristic read
On any characteristic read
On any characteristic read error

Triggered after the Read value or Read binary actions that attempt to read a characteristic
value. If the read fails the error trigger fires. The any variant is triggered for any characteristic
that successfully completes a read rather than a specific one, and sets the CharacteristicID
expression accordingly. Once the read completes successfully, the characteristic value
expressions are set, or if binary was read the data is now available in the chosen Binary Data
object.
On characteristic written
On any characteristic written
On characteristic write error

Page 545 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Triggered after the Write binary action after the operation completes. If the write fails the
error trigger fires. The any variant is triggered for any characteristic that successfully
completes a write rather than a specific one, and sets the CharacteristicID expression
accordingly.
On charactersitics loaded
On characteristics error

Triggered after the Request characteristics action depending on the outcome. If successful
the characteristic list is available with the CharacteristicCount and CharacteristicAt
expressions.
On primary services loaded
On primary services error

Triggered after the Request primary services action depending on the outcome. If successful
the primary service list is available with the PrimaryServiceCount and PrimaryServiceAt
expressions.

Bluetooth actions
Request device

Prompt the user to choose a nearby Bluetooth device to connect to. This must be used in a
user input trigger. The listed Bluetooth devices must be filtered by providing one of Services
(or Optional services), Device name or Device name prefix; only matching devices will be
shown. For possible ways to specify services, see Specifying services and characteristics
above. On device connected triggers if successful, else On request device failed.
Disconnect device

Disconnect a connected Bluetooth device by its device ID.
Read value
Read binary

Read data from a Bluetooth characteristic. The device ID can be left blank to use the default
device (the first device that is connected). For the service and characteristic, see Specifying
services and characteristics above. One of the characteristic read triggers will run depending
on the outcome. If successful, the selected Binary Data object will have the read data loaded
for the binary variant, or the characteristic value expressions will be set for the value variant.
Write binary

Page 546 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Write data to a Bluetooth characteristic from a Binary Data object. The device ID can be left
blank to use the default device (the first device that is connected). For the service and
characteristic, see Specifying services and characteristics above. One of the characteristic
write triggers will run depending on the outcome.
Start/stop notifications

Start or stop notifications for a Bluetooth characteristic. The device ID can be left blank to
use the default device (the first device that is connected). For the service and characteristic,
see Specifying services and characteristics above. While notifications are started, the
notification triggers will run whenever a notification is received.
Request primary services

Request a list of primary services available for a device ID (which can be left blank to use the
default device). If successful triggers On primary services loaded, and the primary service
expressions can be used.
Browsers may filter the listed primary services depending on what was specified in
Request device.

Request characteristics

Request a list of characteristics available for a service. If successful triggers On
characteristics loaded, and the characteristic expressions can be used.

Bluetooth expressions
DeviceID
PrimaryServiceID
CharacteristicID

In a trigger, the ID of the relevant device, primary service, or characteristic, where applicable.
DeviceName

In On device connected, a string with the name of the device that connected.
CharacteristicSignedInteger
CharacteristicUnsignedInteger
CharacteristicFloat
CharacteristicText

Page 547 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

After a successful Read value action, these expressions return the read value in a variety of
different types. Construct will attempt to deduce the type from the length of the data, e.g. if
the data is 1, 2 or 4 bytes long it will read it as both a signed and unsigned integer and set
the expressions accordingly; if 4 or 8 bytes long set the float value; and always attempt to
read the value as text. These values will only be meaningful if they match the type of value
the characteristic really stores. For other data types, use the Read binary action instead.
PrimaryServiceCount
PrimaryServiceAt(index)

After On primary services loaded, use these expressions to retrieve the number of services
and the service identifier at each index in the list.
CharacteristicCount
CharacteristicAt(index)

After On characteristics loaded, use these expressions to retrieve the number of
characteristics and the characteristic identifier at each index in the list.

Page 548 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

BROWSER
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/browser

The Browser object accesses features of the browser or platform running the project. It also
provides features like switching to and from fullscreen mode, detecting if an update is available,
and determining if the page is visible.
Security limitations sometimes prevent browser actions. For example to prevent abuse, the
window Close action can only be used when the window was opened automatically by a web
page and not when it was opened by the user.

Scripting
This object has no script interface, because when using JavaScript or TypeScript coding you can
use the browser built-in APIs to access the same features.

Browser conditions
Cookies enabled

True if the user has cookies enabled in their browser.
Is online

True if the browser thinks it currently has an active connection to the Internet. Construct
projects can work offline - see Offline games for more information.
The "is online" detection of the Browser plugin is more or less a guess. It is actually
difficult to categorically determine if an Internet connection is available. For example the
user may have intermittent signal, and online features sometimes work and sometimes
fail unpredictably. In this case the "Is online" detection is probably wrong, as it can't
actually tell whether a connection will work. Rather than using this condition to check if
online features will work, usually it's better to just go ahead and use online features
anyway as if the user is online, and handle any errors that occur as a result.

On went online
On went offline

Triggered when the browser thinks the connection to the Internet has become available or
unavailable during the running of the project. This is common on mobile devices which may
be moving in and out of signal areas. The Is online condition also changes to reflect the
connection status.

Page 549 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

See the caveat about online detection above.

Is portrait/landscape

Determine if the current display is portrait (height is greater than width) or landscape (width
is greater than height). This is performed by making a simple check on the window size of
the browser, so also returns accordingly on a desktop browser depending on its dimensions.
On back button

Triggered when the user presses the device's 'Back' button. Note not all devices have this
button (e.g. iOS devices only have a 'Home' button) and not all platforms support this trigger.
On hash change

Triggered when the part of the URL after the hash character (e.g.
example.com/index.html#hashpart ) changes. The Hash expression will return the new value.

On offline ready

Triggers the first time the project runs when it has finished downloading and is ready to use
offline.
On update found

Triggers when an update is detected. The update will download in the background and
trigger On update ready when it is ready to be used.
On update ready

Triggered when an updated version has finished downloading in the background. If the user
is still on the project's menu or title screen, you may wish to prompt them to refresh the page
(or just do it automatically) so the new version is loaded. See Offline games for more
information.
Compare display mode

Test the current display mode of the project. This corresponds to the CSS display-mode
media query. Normal display in a web browser usually counts as the browser display mode.
However if a web app install has been performed and the project is being displayed in its
web app form without the usual browser interface elements like the address bar, then usually
that counts as the standalone display mode.
On install available

Page 550 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Is install available

Even in browsers that support web app installs, the option to install may not be immediately
available. On install available triggers when a web app install first becomes available, and
after that Is install available remains true, indicating that the Request install action may be
used.
On install result

Triggered after the Request install action has been used to display an install prompt to the
user. The possible install results are:
Accepted: the user chose to install the web app.
Dismissed: the user cancelled or otherwise declined to install the web app.
Error: something went wrong with the install prompt and it was not able to complete
successfully.
Any: run the trigger regardless of the result. The InstallResult expression can be used to
retrieve a string representing the result.
On app installed

Triggered after the Request install action has been used to display an install prompt to the
user, and the user chose to accept installation, and then the web app installation completed
successfully. Usually this also corresponds to the browser changing the display mode of the
project to its app form (typically standalone display mode).
Has focus
On focus
On blur

Has focus is true if the window currently has focus, which means keyboard input will be
received by the window. On focus is triggered when the window becomes focused, and On
blur is triggered when the window loses focus.
In some cases focus refers to a frame instead of an actual window - for example inside
an iframe, focus means that the user is interacting with the iframe rather than the parent
frame.

Is fullscreen

True if the browser is running in fullscreen mode after using the Request fullscreen action.
Page 551 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

This condition does not detect if the user pressed F11 or used another browser-provided
shortcut to enter fullscreen mode - it only checks if it's fullscreen due to using Request
fullscreen.

On resized

Triggered when the browser window displaying the project is resized. This includes when
changing orientation on a mobile device.

Browser actions
Start group
End group

Start or end a group in the browser console. Groups appear indented, and the browser may
give the option to expand/collapse the group easily. Groups can optionally be named. To
create a group, use Start group, then a series of Log actions, then the End group action.
Log

Log a message, warning or error to the browser console. This can be useful for debugging,
testing and diagnostics.
Vibrate

Vibrate the device with a given pattern, if the device/platform supports vibration. The pattern
is given as a comma-separated list of times in milliseconds, alternating between vibrate time
and waiting. For example the string "200,100,200" specifies a 200ms vibration, 100ms pause,
then another 200ms vibration. This allows a single action to specify a whole vibrate pattern.
Load stylesheet

Load a Cascading Style Sheet (CSS) from a URL and applies its styles to the document. This
can be useful for styling form controls and other DOM elements. The URL can also be the
name of a project file, such as "myfile.css", to load a CSS file included in the project.
CSS can only style DOM elements such as form controls. Note that most objects like
Sprite and Text render directly in to the canvas and are not DOM elements, so cannot be
styled with CSS.

Set CSS style

Set a CSS style on the style attribute of some HTML elements in the document, based on a
CSS property name and a string for its value. Setting the value to an empty string will remove
Page 552 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

the property from the style attribute. The element to change the style for is set by a CSS
selector, e.g. ".myclass" will mean to update the CSS style of an element with the class
myclass; if the Type is set to all, it will update the style of all elements matching the selector.
This is useful for setting document-wide CSS variables that can be used with other
HTML features like form controls or HTML Element.

This action is asynchronous because in worker mode the document cannot be accessed
directly. When the action finishes, the change has been made to the document.

Get CSS style

Retrieve a string with the computed style value for a CSS property on an element given by a
CSS selector. When the action finishes, the value is returned by the CSSStyleValue
expression. A tag is used to identify different CSS style values.
This is useful for retrieving the value of CSS variables from stylesheets in the project.

The action is asynchronous because in worker mode the document cannot be accessed
directly. When the action finishes, the result is available via the CSSStyleValue
expression, passing the same tag.

Go back
Go forward

Move through the browser navigation history as if clicking the Back and Forward buttons on
the browser.
Go to URL

Navigate to a given URL. Note this uses the same window/tab as is showing the project, so
this action will end the project. The Target can be used to select which frame to redirect,
which is only useful if the project is displayed within a frame (e.g. an iframe embed), and the
frame has permission to redirect the parent frame (i.e. it is not sandboxed). Possible targets
are:
Self: redirect only the frame that is currently showing the project.
Parent: redirect the parent frame.

Page 553 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Top: redirect the top level frame (only different to the parent if more than one frame is
used)
Invoke download

Invoke a URL as a file download in the browser. Even if this points to a web page or
document, it will be downloaded as a file in the browser interface. The URL can point to any
address on the Internet, or it can be the name of any imported project file, or it can be a data
URL (useful for downloading canvas snapshots). The filename parameter allows you to
choose the filename the browser gives to the download, which can be different to the name
of the resource being downloaded.
Downloading is a browser feature and depends on the browser UI. Note that mobile apps
don't run in browsers (there is no address bar etc), so the download feature isn't
available there. Consider using the Share plugin to share the file instead.

Invoke download of string

As with Invoke download, but instead of providing a URL to download, a string of the actual
data to download as a file is used. A data URI combining the MIME type and data is created,
then passed to the browser to download. This is convenient for downloading strings in JSON
format as files, e.g. object data from the AsJSON expression.
Open URL in new window

Navigate to a given URL in a new window (or tab if the browser settings override). This
continues to run the project in the old window or tab.
Reload

Force the page to refresh. This effectively restarts the project.
Set hash

Set the part of the URL after the hash character (e.g. example.com/index.html#hashpart ).
Note this does not reload the page, so the hash part of the URL can be used as a kind of
mode or identifier that can be changed while the project is running.
Set warn on close

Enable a warning upon closing the browser tab or window. By default this is disabled, but
when enabled, the user will receive a prompt to confirm closing the browser tab or window. A
generic message will be shown, usually with text along the lines of "Leave site? Changes you
made may not be saved." This provides the option to cancel closing the tab/window, which
may help prevent accidental closure or losing unsaved progress. Note that browsers show
Page 554 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

this message at their discretion and in some circumstances may decide not to show a
prompt for privacy or security reasons.
Request install

Where available, prompt the user to install the current page as a web app. This is normally
only available in a web browser which supports Progressive Web App (PWA) installs. This is
only allowed when installation is available, indicated by the On install available or Is install
available conditions. Further it normally can only be used in a user input trigger, such as a
button click or tap, and may only be used if not already installed. If the install prompt is
shown, then On install result triggers afterwards with the outcome; if the install prompt was
successful and the web app successfully installed, then On app installed triggers, and the
display mode changes. Note that the style of the install dialog depends on how much
information your project provides - see the section on Installable web apps in Publishing to
the web for more details.
Alert

Bring up a simple 'alert' message box.
Blur

Unfocus the browser window.
Cancel fullscreen

Return to windowed mode if the browser is currently in fullscreen mode.
Close

Close the current window, if the script has permission to do so.
Focus

Focus the browser window.
Lock orientation
Unlock orientation

Lock the display of the project to a portrait or landscape mode only, if the current platform
supports this. This only has effect on mobile devices. The project may have to already be
displaying in fullscreen (using the Request fullscreen action) before the orientation can be
locked. Unlocking the orientation restores whatever behavior was set before locking, such as
automatically changing orientation depending on the way the device is being held.
Request fullscreen

Page 555 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Request that the browser enter fullscreen mode. Note the browser may ignore this request
unless the action is in a user-initiated event, such as a mouse click, key press, touch event or
button press. The fullscreen modes that can be entered correspond to the Fullscreen mode
project property. Navigation UI where supported sets whether the browser should show
browser elements such as back buttons or the address bar, or hide them (for a true
fullscreen experience). Typically this setting only affects mobile browsers.
Set window size
Set window position

Set the size and position of the main window. This is only applicable on desktop-style
systems - mobile devices typically use fullscreen apps and therefore windows cannot be
repositioned or resized.
Note that when running in a web browser, the browser may sometimes refuse to change
the window size or position, as a measure to protect the user from unwanted changes.
This can also include being unable to alter the main window when the project is running
in an iframe.

Browser expressions
Language

Get the browser's current language setting, e.g. en-US.
Platform

Get the current platform the browser reports itself running on, e.g. Win32 for Windows.
UserAgent

Return the full user agent string for the browser, e.g. Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64;
x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/60.0.3112.101 Safari/537.36.
CSSStyleValue(tag)

Get the CSS style value retrieved from a prior call to the Get CSS style action. Once the action
has finished (using Wait for previous actions to complete), pass the same tag as the action
was called with to retrieve the result.
Title

The current HTML document's title.
Domain

Page 556 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The current domain, e.g. construct.net.
Hash

The string after the hash at the end of the URL, including the hash. For example, if the
current URL is example.com/index.html#hashpart , this returns #hashpart.

PathName

The path relative to the domain in the URL. For example the path name of
https://construct.net/myproject/index.html#teapot is /myproject/index.html.
Port

A string of the port specified in the URL, if any. Note while ports are numbers, this expression
returns a string, since if no port is specified in the URL it will return an empty string.
Protocol

The current protocol, usually either http: or https:.
QueryParam

Return a query string parameter by name. For example, if the URL ends with index.html?
foo=bar&baz=ban, QueryParam("foo") returns bar and QueryParam("baz") returns ban.

QueryString

Return the full URL query string including the question mark. For example, if the URL ends
with index.html?foo=bar&baz=ban, this returns ?foo=bar&baz=ban.
Referrer

Get the previous page that linked to this page, if any.
URL

Get the complete current URL in the browser address bar, including the protocol.
DisplayMode

A string indicating the current browser display mode - see the Compare display mode
condition for more details. This expression returns one of the strings "browser", "standalone",
"minimal-ui" or "fullscreen".
InstallResult

Page 557 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

In the On install result trigger, a string representing the install result. This may be one of the
strings "accepted", "declined", "unavailable", "failed", or an empty string ("") if no install yet
attempted.

Page 558 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

BUTTON
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/button

The Button object creates a button control which the user can click to perform an action. It can
also be set to be a checkbox.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
IButtonInstance script interface.

Layering HTML objects
This object displays using a HTML element rather than drawing in to the canvas. This means its
layering works differently to other objects. To learn more about how to layer HTML objects, see
HTML layers.

Styling buttons
As Button objects are HTML elements, their appearance can be customised using CSS
(Cascading Style Sheets). The ID and Class properties can be used to identify the HTML element,
and a CSS project file added to apply some styles to it.

Button properties
Type

Either Button for a push-button or Checkbox for a checked/unchecked control.
Text

The text appearing on the button face or checkbox label.
Tooltip

A tooltip that appears in most browsers if the user hovers the mouse over the button and
waits. Leave blank for no tooltip.
Initially visibile

Whether or not the button is shown on startup. If Invisible, the button must be shown with
the Set visible action.

Page 559 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enabled

Whether the button is initially enabled. If disabled, the button will be greyed out and cannot
be pushed.
Auto font size

Automatically set the font-size property of the element according to the layout and layer
scale. This will prevent the font-size CSS property being manually set with the Set CSS style
action. Disable if you intend to use Set CSS style to adjust the font-size property.
Checked

If Type is Checkbox, this is the initial check state of the control.
ID Optional

An optional id attribute for the element in the DOM (Document Object Model). This can be
useful for CSS styling.
Class Optional

An optional class attribute for the element in the DOM (Document Object Model). This can be
useful for CSS styling.

Button conditions
See common conditions for features shared between form control objects.
Is checked

If Type is Checkbox, is true if the control is currently checked.
On clicked

Triggered when the user pushes the button or checks/unchecks the control, either by
keyboard, mouse or touch input.

Button actions
See common actions for features shared between form control objects.
Set checked

If Type is Checkbox, set the current check state of the control.
Set text

Page 560 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set the text on the button face.
Set tooltip

Set the text that appears for the button tooltip. Leave blank for no tooltip.
Toggle checked

If Type is Checkbox, toggles the check state of the control.

Button expressions
The Button object does not have any of its own expressions.

Page 561 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CLIPBOARD
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/clipboard

The Clipboard object provides access to the system clipboard, such as copy and paste
operations.

Scripting
This object has no script interface, because when using JavaScript or TypeScript coding you can
use the browser built-in Clipboard API.

Browser permissions
For security and privacy reasons, clipboard access - particularly paste operations - are usually
controlled by permission prompts in browsers. Further, these operations are sometimes only
allowed in a user input trigger, such as a button click or touch start. This prevents situations like
web pages being able to immediately read from the user's clipboard before they've even
interacted with the page. However it may mean you need to adjust the way your project
accesses the clipboard.

Clipboard conditions
On copy success

Triggered after a copy action when the copy has successfully completed, so the data is now
on the user's clipboard.
On copy error

Triggered after a copy action fails. The user may not have granted permission or the attempt
may not have been in a user input trigger.
On paste text

Triggered after a Request paste text action completes successfully. The text from the user's
clipboard is available with the PastedText expression.
On paste binary

Triggered after a Request paste binary action completes successfully, and the data in the
user's clipboard matches the MIME type specified in the trigger (e.g. "image/png" for a PNG
image). This allows using different triggers to receive different types of clipboard data. When
this triggers, the pasted data is placed inside the chosen Binary Data object.

Page 562 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On paste error

Triggered after a paste action fails. The user may not have granted permission or the
attempt may not have been in a user input trigger.

Clipboard actions
Copy text

Copy a string of text to the user's clipboard. This may require permission from the browser.
On copy success or On copy error will trigger afterwards depending on the result.
Copy binary

Copy the contents of a Binary Data object the user's clipboard. The MIME type of the data
must also be specified, e.g. "image/png" for a PNG image, so other apps know whether they
can paste the data. Copying may require permission from the browser. On copy success or
On copy error will trigger afterwards depending on the result.
Request paste text

Request to read text from the user's current clipboard. This usually involves a permission
prompt in browsers and may only be allowed in a user input trigger. If successful then On
paste text will trigger and the pasted text will be available in the PastedText expression;
otherwise On paste error will trigger.
Request paste binary

Request to read binary data from the user's current clipboard. This usually involves a
permission prompt in browsers and may only be allowed in a user input trigger. If successful
then On paste binary will trigger assuming the type of the clipboard data matches the type
specified in the trigger; then the data is available in the chosen Binary Data object. Otherwise
On paste error will trigger if the attempt to paste fails.

Clipboard expressions
PastedText

After On paste text triggers, this is set to the text that was copied to the user's clipboard.

Page 563 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CONSTRUCT GAME SERVICES
PLUGIN
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/constructgame-services

The Construct Game Services (CGS) plugin allows accessing game services hosted by Scirra,
the makers of Construct. Features include authentication and submitting high scores both for
the Construct Arcade and cross-platform leaderboards.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ICGSObjectType script interface.

Authentication
If you want to allow the player to sign in, you can make a login system with these steps.
1

In your Construct Game Services account, create a game. Take note of the game ID.

2

Use an action like Sign in with provider to provide a login using one of several existing account
providers like Google, Microsoft or Steam. (You may want to allow multiple providers.) You'll
need to specify the game ID to sign in to.

3

When the player chooses this option, a popup window will appear asking them to log in, or if they
are already logged in, to confirm that they wish to proceed.

4

If the player signs in successfully, then On success will trigger for Sign in with provider. You can
then access the PlayerName and PlayerID expressions, and make use of other features like
submitting scores to cross-platform leaderboards.

Sign in persistent
If the user signs in with Allow persisting enabled, then their sign in is remembered. Upon
returning the Can sign in persistent condition will be true, and you can offer an option to log in
again using the Sign in persistent action. This can continue with the previous sign in without
showing any user interface.
If the user signs out, it will delete their remembered sign in, so Can sign in persistent will not be
true when they return to your game.

Leaderboards
Scores can be submitted to either the Construct Arcade or a cross-platform leaderboard.

Page 564 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Construct Arcade leaderboards
To publish a game to the Construct Arcade with leaderboards, follow these steps:
1

Add the Construct Game Services plugin to your project

2

Add a Submit score action to submit the player's score at the appropriate time (such as when a
'Game over' screen appears). Leave the Leaderboard ID parameter empty.

3

Publish to the Construct Arcade following the normal process

4

Play your game until a score is submitted

5

Reload the page and a leaderboard will have appeared with your score

Note that you do not need to add any authentication features to your project to submit a score to
the Construct Arcade, as it handles authentication automatically.

Cross-platform leaderboards
To make use of leaderboards on other platforms, follow these steps:
1

In your Construct Game Services account, create a game (if you haven't already), and then create
a leaderboard in that game. Take note of both the game ID and leaderboard ID.

2

Add a sign-in feature to your game using the authentication features, as players must be signed
in to be able to submit a score. You'll need to specify the game ID to sign in to.

3

Once a player is signed in, you can use the Submit score action, specifying the leaderboard ID to
submit to.

You should then be able to find the score on the leaderboard in your Construct Game Services
account. You can display scores in your game using the Get leaderboard scores action.

CGS conditions
Can sign in persistent

True if the user previously successfully signed in when Allow persisting was enabled and did
not sign out. This means the Sign in persistent action can be used to continue with the
previous sign in.
Is signed in

True if the user is currently signed in.
On success
On error

Triggered after an action depending on whether it completed successfully or failed.

Page 565 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CGS actions
Sign in with provider

Attempt to sign the user in with a third-party identity service like Google or Microsoft. The
game ID to sign in to from your Construct Game Services account must be provided. If Allow
persisting is enabled, a successful sign in is remembered, and may be re-used in future with
the Sign in persistent action. The Expiry is the time in minutes that sessions remain active.
Signing in with a provider will open a popup window, and you can also specify the size of this
popup window. Upon completing a sign in, On success will trigger for sign in with provider. In
some cases if the sign in is cancelled or fails, On error will trigger.
Note that in some cases, sign in may be cancelled in a way that cannot be detected
(neither On success nor On error will trigger). Be sure to design your project with this in
mind - for example do not block the user interface until sign in finishes, as you cannot
reliably detect that.

Sign in persistent

Attempt to sign in re-using a previous successful sign in that allowed persisting. This can
only be used when Can sign in persistent is true. This will trigger either On success or On
error for sign in persistent depending on whether the persistent sign in completed
successfully.
Sign out

Sign out of any account the user is currently signed in to, and also delete any remembered
sign in if it allowed persisting. Locally this operation completes immediately and so there is
no corresponding success or error trigger. For completeness signing out will send a request
in the background to ensure the session is ended on the server-side as well, but that is
optional and if it fails the session will time out anyway.
Submit score

Submit a score to a leaderboard. The Score must be an integer (fractional scores are not
supported). The Leaderboard ID may be left empty to submit a score on the Construct
Arcade, which does not require authentication. Otherwise it may be set to the leaderboard ID
to submit the score to, in which case authentication is required.
Get leaderboard scores

Request a page of scores from a given leaderboard ID, with a specified zero-based page
number and number of results per page. This does not require authentication. The returned
scores can optionally be filtered with several options. An ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country code
filter can be provided, e.g. "US" to only return scores submitted in the United States of
America. A time range can also be specified, such as Daily to return today's scores. Weekly
Page 566 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

leaderboards run from Monday to Sunday. A range offset can also be specified to return a
prior range - for example specifying a Daily range with offset 1 will return yesterday's scores.
The Culture can be set to a locale to use for returned values, or left empty to use the
leaderboard's default culture. On success will trigger for get scores when scores are retrieved
successfully, in which case the leaderboard expressions can be used to access them.

CGS expressions
GameID

A string of the game ID currently signed in to.
PlayerID

A string with a unique ID to identify the currently signed in player.
PlayerName

The display name of the currently signed in player.
ScoreCount

After successfully retrieving leaderboard scores, the number of scores available.
ScoreAt(index)
ScoreFormattedAt(index)
ScoreRankAt(index)
ScoreFormattedRankAt(index)
ScorePlayerIDAt(index)
ScorePlayerNameAt(index)
ScoreCountryAt(index)

After successfully retrieving leaderboard scores, these expressions return information about
a score at a given zero-based index. Scores and ranks are numbers, but the formatted
versions return a string formatted according to the locale. Countries are returned as ISO
3166-1 alpha-2 country codes.
TotalPageCount

After successfully retrieving leaderboard scores, the total number of pages available.

Page 567 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CRYPTOGRAPHY
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/cryptography

The Cryptography object can perform cryptographic operations such as encryption and hashing.

Scripting
This object has no script interface, because when using JavaScript or TypeScript coding you can
use the browser built-in Web Crypto API.

Encryption does not guarantee security
Please read this section carefully if you intend to use encryption in your project.
The Cryptography object can perform password-based encryption and decryption. This is
intended for both educational purposes to help illustrate the principles of encryption, and also as
a means to make it harder, although not impossible, to make unwanted modifications to
sensitive data such as save game data (which could for example allow cheating).
Merely using encryption does not mean your project is secure. Designing truly secure systems
involves careful design of the overall system and is usually done by people with training and
expertise, and may well need to involve a server to host the sensitive data out of reach of clients.
In particular, if you enter a long and supposedly secure password for the Encrypt action in the
event sheet, then that password will appear in plain text in your project's exported data files. A
sufficiently motivated person will likely be able to identify that password in the exported files and
then be able to view or modify any data encrypted with the same password. Even if you use a
dynamically generated password so that the password does not appear in the project's exported
data files, a more advanced adversary will still be able to use debugging tools to identify the
password at the moment it is used to encrypt data.
In short you should see encryption as a tool that makes it somewhat harder to view or modify
data, but certainly not impossible. In some cases this is still sufficient. For example if you are
concerned about people using browser developer tools to casually modify save game data and
cheat, encrypting the data may be sufficient to deter casual modification, even if more skilled
adversaries are still capable of it.

HTTPS is already encrypted
Note that if you want to send data to a server securely, the best approach is to use a secure
connection over HTTPS. This is already encrypted, and so there is no need to use the
Cryptography object to encrypt data sent over a secure connection.

Page 568 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Processing text
Since encrypted data is usually binary data that is not easily representible as text, the
Cryptography object generally works with the Binary Data object for both its input and output.
However this does not preclude the ability to use text: after all, text is just another kind of binary
data. You can store text in a Binary Data object with the Set from text action, and retrieve text
from it with the GetAllText expression. Using these allows performing tasks like encrypting and
decrypting text or hashing text.
You can also reliably display and transmit binary data in a text format by encoding it as Base64
using both the Set from base64 action and GetBase64 expression.

Examples
See the Encryption example for a basic demonstration of encryption and decryption of a
message. The Hashing example also demonstrates hashing text or files.

Encrypted data format
For advanced users who wish to interoperate encrypted data with other code or services, the
encrypted binary data contains a small amount of metadata added at the start by Construct to
aid in decryption. The format of the data is described below.
Bytes Description
0-1 Reserved (must be 0)
1-17 Salt (16 bytes)
17-29 Initialization vector (aka IV, 12 bytes)
29-33 Iterations (uint32, 4 bytes)
33+ Encrypted data payload

Cryptography conditions
On encryption finished
On encryption failed
On any encryption finished
On any encryption failed

Triggered after an encryption action depending on whether the operation completed
successfully. A tag can be specified to distinguish different encryption operations. The "any"
variants always trigger regardless of the tag, and the associated tag can be retrieved with the
Tag expression.
On decryption finished
On decryption failed
On any decryption finished
On any decryption failed

Page 569 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Triggered after a decryption action depending on whether the operation completed
successfully. Decryption will fail if the incorrect password is specified. A tag can be specified
to distinguish different decryption operations. The "any" variants always trigger regardless of
the tag, and the associated tag can be retrieved with the Tag expression.
On hash finished
On any hash finished

Triggered after a hash action when the operation completes. A tag can be specified to
distinguish different hashing operations. The "any" variant always triggers regardless of the
tag, and the associated tag can be retrieved with the Tag expression.

Cryptography actions
Encrypt binary

Encrypt the contents of a given Binary Data object. The same provided password must be
specified to successfully decrypt the data. The Iterations parameter indicates how many
times to repeat a hash function when generating an encryption key; higher values use more
processing power and so slow down encryption and decryption, but make it harder to use a
brute-force attack to decrypt the data. An optional tag can be specified to distinguish
different encryption operations. When the data has finished being encrypted, On encryption
finished triggers.
Using encryption does not guarantee your project is secure. See the section Encryption
does not guarantee security above.

Decrypt binary

Decrypt the contents of a given Binary Data object. Decryption will only succeed if the same
password that was used to encrypt the data is provided. An optional tag can be specified to
distinguish different decryption operations. When the data has finished being decrypted, On
decryption finished triggers; if decryption fails, including due to having the wrong password,
then On decryption failed will trigger instead.
Hash binary

Compute a cryptographic hash function for the contents of a given Binary Data object.
Currently supported hash functions include SHA-256, SHA-384 and SHA-512 from the SHA-2
family of functions. An optional tag can be specified to distinguish different hasing
operations. When the hashing completes, On hash finished will trigger and the resulting hash
will be available as a hexadecimal string in the Hash expression.

Cryptography expressions
Page 570 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Hash

After On hash finished triggers, a hexadecimal string of the resulting hash. For example the
SHA-256 hash of the string "Construct" is
67e7c6e28e540b4fd412ad663b634a38572b98d3f4608fc5792f2600d32c1eb9 .

Tag

In a trigger such as On any decryption finished or On any hash finished, this returns the
associated tag of the action that resulted in the trigger.

Page 571 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CSV
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/csv

The CSV plugin supports reading and writing data in comma-separated values (CSV) format, as
well as other similar formats that use a different delimiter such as tab-separated values (TSV).
Delimiter-based formats like CSV and TSV are simple and easy to use, but are limited in their
ability to represent more complex data. For more advanced uses consider using JSON instead.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ICSVObjectType script interface.

Using CSV files
CSV and TSV files can be added as project files in the Project Bar and edited directly in
Construct. As with other data formats, these can then be loaded by requesting them with the
AJAX object.

Using tab delimiters
Due to the use of the tab key as a shortcut in the editor, it can be difficult to type a tab in the
Parameters Dialog for the delimiter parameter if you want to use tab-separated values. To make
this easier the CSV plugin provides a TabCharacter expression which just returns a string with a
single tab character in it, so it can be conveniently used as a delimiter parameter.

Using array for storage
The CSV plugin merely parses and generates CSV. It uses an Array object to store the actual
data, as CSV can conveniently be represented as a two-dimensional array, and it allows using the
full features of the Array object to read and manipulate the data.

CSV conditions
On parse error

Triggered when using the Parse action with invalid data, such as a quoted item that is
missing its end quote. If a parse error occurs then no data will be read from the file and the
specified Array object will be unmodified.
On parse success

Triggered when using the Parse action with valid data that is successfully parsed.
Page 572 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

CSV actions
Generate CSV

Generate a string of CSV data using data from a specified two-dimensional Array object. A
custom delimiter can be set for other delimiter-separated formats like tab-separated values.
After this action the resulting string is available via the GeneratedCSV expression.
Parse CSV

Read a string of CSV data in to a specified Array object. The resulting data will be stored as a
two-dimensional array. A custom delimiter can be set for other delimiter-separated formats
like tab-separated values. If any of the rows are different lengths, the width of the array will
be the maximum row length. If the data is invalid for any reason, On parse error will be
triggered; otherwise if valid On parse success will be triggered. The Data type parameter
determines whether values are read as strings or numbers. Its possible values are:
Auto: automatically determine whether values are strings or numbers, based on whether
the string looks like a number. For example "hello" will be stored as a string, but "100" will
be stored as a number.
String: treat every value as a string. Note this means a number like "100" will be stored as
a string with that sequence of characters rather than an actual number type.
Number: treat every value as a number. Note this means strings like "hello", which are not
valid numbers, will result in the special "Not A Number" (NaN) value.

CSV expressions
GeneratedCSV

After the Generate CSV action, this expression returns a string of the generated CSV data.
TabCharacter

This expression merely returns a string with a single tab character in it. This can be useful to
use as a delimiter parameter for tab-separated values (TSV), as a tab character can be
difficult to type in the editor as it functions as a keyboard shortcut to move focus.

Page 573 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

DATE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/date

The Date object provides a set of conditions and expressions for managing dates and times.
For an example of the Date object, open the Date & Time example.

Scripting
This object has no script interface, because when using JavaScript or TypeScript coding you can
use the browser built-in Date object.

Timestamps
The Date object mostly works with timestamps. These are the number of milliseconds since
January 1st 1970 (also known as the Unix epoch), and is not affected by timezones or leap
seconds. This is a standard way to reliably refer to a specific point in time in software
development, and is sometimes referred to as the Unix time.
A timestamp is just a number, which makes it easy to store them in existing variables or
compare them as you would any other number. However it's difficult for humans to make sense
of a timestamp since it's just a single large number. The Date object provides expressions to