# Manual Construct 3  Parte 13 (líneas 1440115600)

## Resumen
- Shadow caster properties (línea 7)
- Height (línea 8)
- The simulated height of the object, which adjusts the length of shadow it casts. If the (línea 10)
- long a shadow to cast. For example two objects with different heights will cast different (línea 13)
- length shadows. (línea 14)
- Tag (línea 15)
- A tag for this shadow casting object. A Shadow light object also has a tag, and can be set to (línea 17)
- only cast shadows from shadow casters with the same or different tags to itself. This can be (línea 18)
- used to have different Shadow lights casting shadows off different sets of objects, such as (línea 19)
- to have shadows working at different levels of Z order. (línea 20)
- Enabled (línea 21)
- Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, the object will not cast a (línea 23)
- shadow. (línea 24)
- Shadow caster conditions (línea 30)
- Compare height (línea 31)
- Compare the current height property of the behavior to a value. (línea 33)
- Is enabled (línea 34)
- True if the behavior is currently enabled so it can cast shadows. (línea 36)
- Shadow caster actions (línea 38)
- Set enabled (línea 39)

## Contenido

Shadow caster properties
Height

The simulated height of the object, which adjusts the length of shadow it casts. If the
Shadow light height is less than or equal to the object height, it casts an "infinite" shadow
which goes all the way offscreen; if it is higher, it uses the relative heights to calculate how
long a shadow to cast. For example two objects with different heights will cast different
length shadows.
Tag

A tag for this shadow casting object. A Shadow light object also has a tag, and can be set to
only cast shadows from shadow casters with the same or different tags to itself. This can be
used to have different Shadow lights casting shadows off different sets of objects, such as
to have shadows working at different levels of Z order.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, the object will not cast a
shadow.

Page 449 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Shadow caster conditions
Compare height

Compare the current height property of the behavior to a value.
Is enabled

True if the behavior is currently enabled so it can cast shadows.

Shadow caster actions
Set enabled

Enable or disable the behavior. If disabled, the object will not cast a shadow.
Set height

Set the height property of the behavior. For more information see Shadow caster properties.
Set tag

Change the tag of the behavior. For more information see Shadow caster properties.

Shadow caster expressions
Height

Return the current height property.
Tag

Return the currently set tag for the behavior.

Page 450 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SINE BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/sine

The Sine behavior can adjust an object's properties (like its position, size or angle) back and
forth according to an oscillating sine wave. This can be used to create interesting visual effects.
Despite the name, alternative wave functions like 'Triangle' can also be selected to create
different effects. A visualisation of the different wave types can be found on Wikipedia.
Click here to open an example of the Sine behavior, which demonstrates each type of movement
the behavior can use.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the ISineBehaviorInstance script interface.

Sine properties
Movement

The Sine behavior has the following modes:
Horizontal moves the object left and right on the X axis
Vertical moves the object up and down on the Y axis
Forwards/backwards moves the object in a straight line back and forth along the angle
the object is facing at, like an angled Horizontal mode.
Width stretches the object wider and narrower
Height stretches the object taller and shorter
Size makes the object grow and shrink
Angle rotates the object clockwise and anticlockwise
Opacity oscillates the object opacity. Note object opacities can never go less than 0 or
greater than 100.

Page 451 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Z elevation moves the object up and down on the Z axis.
Value only does not modify the object. It simply stores the oscillating value which can be
accessed by the Value expression. This can be useful to create custom effects or modify
any other object or behavior property based on the sine behavior.
Wave

The wave function used to calculate the movement. For a visualisation see this Wikipedia
diagram.
Sine: the default smooth oscillating motion based on a sine wave.
Triangle: a linear back-and-forth motion.
Sawtooth: linear motion with a jump back to start.
Reverse sawtooth: reverse linear motion with a jump back to start.
Square: alternating between the two maximum values.
Period

The duration, in seconds, of one complete back-and-forth cycle.
Period random

A random number of seconds added to the period for each instance. This can help vary the
appearance when a lot of instances are using the Sine behavior.
Period offset

The initial time in seconds through the cycle. For example, if the period is 2 seconds and the
period offset is 1 second, the sine behavior starts half way through a cycle.
Period offset random

A random number of seconds added to the period offset for each instance. This can help
vary the appearance when a lot of instances are using the Sine behavior.
Magnitude

The maximum change in the object's position, size or angle. This is in pixels for position or
size modes, or degrees for the angle mode.

Page 452 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Magnitude random

A random value to add to the magnitude for each instance. This can help vary the
appearance when a lot of instances are using the Sine behavior.
Enabled

If disabled, the behavior will have no effect until the Set active action is used.
Preview Paid plans only

Enable to run a preview of the behavior directly in the Layout View.

Sine conditions
Compare magnitude

Compare the current magnitude of the movement.
Compare movement

Compare the current movement property of the behavior.
Compare period

Compare the current period of the movement, in seconds.
Compare wave

Compare the current wave property of the behavior.
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled. When disabled it will have no effect on the object.

Sine actions
Set cycle position

Set the progress through one cycle of the chosen wave, from 0 (the beginning of the cycle) to
1 (the end of the cycle). For example setting the cycle position to 0.5 will put it half way
through the repeating motion.
Set enabled

Enable or disable the behavior. When disabled, the behavior does not affect the object at all.

Page 453 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set magnitude

Set the current magnitude of the cycle. This is in pixels when modifying the size or position,
and degrees when modifying the angle.
Set movement

Change the movement type of the behavior, e.g. from Horizontal to Size.
Set period

Set the duration of a single complete back-and-forth cycle, in seconds.
Set wave

Change the wave property of the behavior, choosing a different wave function to be used to
calculate the movement.
Update initial state

The Sine behavior records the object's initial state upon its creation, and always oscillates
relative to that, even if it is deactivated and later activated after the object has been modified.
If the object changes and you wish for the Sine behavior to oscillate relative to the new state
instead of its state upon creation, use this action to reset the initial state to the object's
current state.

Sine expressions
CyclePosition

Return a value from 0 to 1 representing the progress through the current cycle. For example,
exactly half way through a cycle this returns 0.5.
Magnitude

Return the current magnitude of the cycle. This is in pixels when modifying the size or
position, and degrees when modifying the angle.
Period

Return the current period of a single complete back-and-forth cycle in seconds.
Value

Return the current oscillating value. This will alternate as a positive and negative value
centered on zero. This is useful to create custom effects when in Value only mode.

Page 454 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SOLID BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/solid

The Solid behavior makes other behaviors react to the object as if it were an impassable
obstacle. Objects with this behavior are referred to as Solids. It affects the following behaviors:
8 Direction, which is blocked by Solids
Bullet, which can optionally bounce off Solids
Car, which bounces off Solids
Line-of-sight, which by default has line-of-sight obstructed by Solids
Move To, which can optionally stop on solids.
Platform, which can land on Solids. Platform cannot jump on to solids from underneath - for
this, use the Jump-thru behavior.
Pathfinding, which by default uses solids as path obstacles.
Tile movement, which is blocked by Solids
Note that the Physics behavior is not affected by Solid objects. Instead, use the Physics behavior
with Immovable enabled.
The Solid behavior is a fundamental attribute in Construct, and several other Construct features
also interact with Solid objects. For example, the Custom Movement behavior has actions to
push the object out of solids.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the ISolidBehaviorInstance script interface.

Avoid crushing/trapping objects with Solids
The behaviors which respond to the Solid behavior usually get stuck if Solid objects crush or
otherwise trap the object deep inside the Solid object. In this case there is no solution for the
movement. The only three options are 1) let the object get stuck, 2) allow the object to move
inside solids, or 3) teleport the object to the nearest free space, which in some cases can be
quite far away. Since options 2 and 3 can cause strange glitches if allowed, Construct will
deliberately make the object unable to move, and this is the intended behavior. Therefore, it is up
to you to design your games in such a way that the player cannot be crushed or trapped by
moving Solid objects. You should be especially careful when moving Solids up against other
Solids.

Page 455 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

It is only by moving (or re-enabling) Solids, or using Set position, that objects can become
trapped. If none of the Solids in your game move and you do not "teleport" the player around with
Set position, it should be impossible for the player to ever get trapped in solids.

Solid properties
Enabled

Set whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, the object no longer acts
as if it is solid, and objects will be able to pass through it.
Tags

An optional list of tags to apply to the Solid, separated by spaces. This is referenced by the
Set solid collision filter action, allowing collisions to be enabled and disabled with different
sets of solids.

Solid conditions
Is enabled

True if the behavior is currently enabled. This can be changed by the Enabled property or the
Set enabled action.

Solid actions
Set enabled

Enable or disable Solid for this object. Be careful not to trap objects by enabling the solid
when an object is overlapping it; see Avoid crushing/trapping objects with Solids.
Set tags

Change the Tags property, affecting solid collision filtering.

Page 456 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TILE MOVEMENT
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/tilemovement

The Tile movement behavior allows an object to be moved up, down, left and right, moving a
fixed distance at a time, controlled by the arrow keys by default. This is useful for tilemap-based
games, where the level is designed around a grid: by using the same grid size with the Tile
movement, the controlled object will always be aligned with a grid cell.
The Tile movement aligns the object's origin with the grid. To ensure the object appears in the
correct alignment with a visible grid, ensure the object size is the size of the cell, and place the
origin in the top-left corner. Often it's easiest to make this object invisible, and place the player
sprite on top so that it can keep its own size and origin, as is done in this example of the Tile
movement behavior.
The Tile movement behavior is blocked by any objects with the Solid behavior.
To set up custom or automatic controls, see the behavior reference summary.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the ITileMovementBehaviourInstance script interface.

Tile movement properties
Grid width
Grid height

The size of the movement grid cells, in pixels. The object moves in increments of this size.
Normally this matches the size of a corresponding tilemap.
Grid offset X
Grid offset Y

The offset of the movement grid, in pixels. This can be used to align with a tilemap that is not
aligned with (0, 0) in the layout.
Speed X
Speed Y

The speed of the movement on each axis, in pixels per second.

Page 457 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.
Default controls

If enabled, movement is controlled by the arrow keys on the keyboard. Disable to set up
custom controls using the Simulate control action. For more information see the behavior
reference summary.
Isometric

Check to enable an isometric grid movement, along diagonals. In this mode the "up" direction
is towards the top-right. The default is unchecked, using a cartesian grid with horizontal and
vertical movement.

Tile movement conditions
Can move to

Test if the object can move into a grid cell, given by its grid column and row. This is true if the
cell is clear of any obstacles.
Can move in direction

Test if the object can move N cells in a given direction. Unlike the Can move to condition this
checks for obstacles between the object and the destination.
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled.
Is moving

Test if the behavior is currently moving in to a cell.
Is moving in direction

Test if the behavior is currently moving left, right, down or up. This is useful for setting the
corresponding animation.

Tile movement actions
Set default controls

Enable or disable the Default controls property (see above for more details).
Page 458 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set enabled

Enable or disable the movement. If disabled, the movement no longer has any effect on the
object.
Set grid dimensions

Specify new values for the Grid width, Grid height, Grid offset X and Grid offset Y properties.
Set grid position

Set the object to a cell in the grid, given by its grid column and row. The Movement option
allows the object to either be set to that position instantly, or animate over for a smooth
movement over time.
Set ignoring input

Set whether input is being ignored. If input is ignored, pressing any of the control keys has no
effect. However, unlike disabling the behavior, the object can continue to move.
Set speed

Specify new values for the Speed X and Speed Y properties.
Simulate control

Simulate one of the movement controls being held down. Useful when Default controls is
disabled. See the behavior reference summary for more information.

Tile movement expressions
GridTargetX
GridTargetY

Return the grid cell the object is currently moving towards, by its column and row.
GridX
GridY

Return the current grid cell the object is in by its column and row.
SpeedX
SpeedY

Return the current speed of the object on each axis, in pixels per second.

Page 459 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TargetX
TargetY

Return the layout co-ordinates of the grid cell the object is currently moving towards, by its
column and row.

Page 460 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TIMER BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/timer

The Timer behavior triggers its On timer condition regularly or once after a delay. This is like
using the system Every X seconds condition, or the system Wait action, except that times are
kept for each instance individually. The rate of On timer triggering is affected by the time scale.
The timer behavior is a more convenient alternative to adding dt to an instance variable every
tick.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the ITimerBehaviorInstance script interface.

Tags
A single Timer behavior can keep track of multiple timers. To distinguish between them, a tag is
used. A tag is just a string, which can be anything. For example, starting a timer with tag "attack"
will trigger On timer "attack", but not On timer "defend".
When a timer is stopped, or after a one-off timer triggers, it no longer exists and the timer
expressions cannot be used to retrieve any information about it.

Timer conditions
Is timer paused

True if a timer with the given tag has been started and then subsequently paused with the
Pause/resume timer action.
Is timer running

True if a timer with the given tag has been started with the Start timer action. Once Stop
timer is used, the timer no longer counts as running. Paused timers also count as running use the Is timer paused condition to identify these timers separately.
On timer

Triggers either regularly, or once off, after a timer that was started with the same tag has
reached its duration.
Note: this trigger can fire with multiple instances picked, if their timers all reach their
time in the same tick. This can sometimes work unexpectedly if the actions expect there

Page 461 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

to be just one instance picked. The workaround is to add a For each condition after this
trigger to ensure the actions run once per instance.

Timer actions
Pause/resume timer

Set a currently running timer (started with the Start timer action) either paused or resumed.
When a timer is paused, it will stop triggering On timer. When resumed, it will continue
triggering On timer, resuming from the time that it was paused at. In other words if a timer is
set for 1 second, it is paused after 0.5 seconds, and then after some time it is resumed
again, On timer will trigger 0.5 seconds after resuming.
Pause/resume all timers

This does the same thing as the Pause/resume timer action, but affecting all existing timers
rather than only one with a given tag.
Start timer

Set a new timer, or if the timer exists, re-start it with new options. Duration is the time until
On timer triggers. If Type is Once, then On timer will fire once and not again until Start timer is
used again; if Regular, then On timer will keep firing every Duration seconds. The tag allows
multiple timers to run at once. The corresponding On timer condition must use the same tag.
Stop timer

Stop a timer with a specific tag. On timer will no longer trigger with the given tag after this
action.
Stop all timers

Stop all currently running timers regardless of their tags. On timer will no longer trigger for
any timer after this action unless a new timer is started.

Timer expressions
CurrentTime(tag)

The time in seconds since On timer last triggered, for a timer with a specific tag.
Duration(tag)

The duration in seconds for a timer with a specific tag.
NormalizedProgress(tag)

Page 462 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
g

(

g)

The current progress for a timer with a specific tag represented as a number between 0 and
1, regardless of the duration of the timer. For example a normalized progress of 0.5 means
half way through the duration.
TotalTime(tag)

The time in seconds since a timer with a specific tag was started with the Start timer action.
This is only useful with regular timers, since it will always equal the CurrentTime expression
for one-off timers (after which they fire and the timer no longer exists, so these expressions
return 0).

Page 463 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TURRET BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/turret

The Turret behavior can automatically detect objects within a certain range and rotate towards
them. It optionally includes features to determine when to fire, as well as predictive aim.
For examples of the Turret behavior, search for Turret in the Example Browser.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the ITurretBehaviorInstance script interface.

How Turrets work
Before a turret will target anything, you must use the Add object to target action so the object
knows which objects to look for. Calling this once on the start of layout is sufficient. You can
also give the turret a Family Paid plans only to target, allowing it to easily target a collection of
different objects.
Once one of these objects enters the Turret's range (the distance between the objects is lower
than the Range property), and the turret does not already have a target, then the turret acquires
that object as a target. On target acquired is triggered, and if Rotate is enabled the object will
start rotating towards the target. Once the turret is pointing in the direction of the target, On
shoot will trigger at the frequency determined by the Rate of fire property. If you want the turret
to fire upon the target, spawn a projectile in the On shoot event.
If the target leaves the turret's range, the turret will lose the target and stop firing. If another
target is already in range, it will immediately acquire that; otherwise it will simply wait until the
next target enters range. Also note if Target mode is set to Nearest, the turret may switch to
another target before the current target leaves range, if the new target comes closer than the
existing target.

Predictive aim
A useful feature of the Turret behavior is the ability to use predictive aim. For an interactive
demonstration of this see the Turret predictive aim example in the Start dialog.
Normally turrets aim directly at a target. This often means moving targets are never hit, because
by the time the projectile arrives, the object has moved somewhere else. Predictive aim solves
this by aiming the turret at where the object will be by the time the projectile arrives, if it
maintains the same velocity. In order for this to work, the Turret behavior must have the speed of
the projectile set in its Projectile speed property, so it can determine how long it will take for the

Page 464 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

projectile to arrive. The projectile must also use a fixed speed, and not have any acceleration or
deceleration.
It is still possible for targets to dodge predictive aiming turrets, by changing direction or speed
while the projectile travels towards it. However this is considerably more difficult compared to
not using predictive aim, and the overall accuracy of the turret will be significantly improved.

Turret properties
Range

The range, in pixels, that the turret can detect targets in. Any targets further away from the
turret than this distance will be ignored.
Rate of fire

The rate at which to trigger On shoot, when the turret has both acquired a target and rotated
to point in the direction of the target.
Rotate

Whether to automatically set the object's angle according to the angle of the turret.
Rotate speed

The speed at which the turret can rotate towards targets, in degrees per second.
Target mode

If First in range, the turret will always track the same target until it leaves range, even if other
targets come in range. If Nearest, the turret may switch to a different target before its current
target leaves range, if another target comes closer.
Predictive aim

Whether to enable predictive aim or not. If enabled, you must set the correct Projectile speed
for the predictive aim to work correctly. For more information see the section on Predictive
aim above.
Projectile speed

If Predictive aim is enabled, this must be set to the projectile speed in pixels per second for
the predictive aim to work correctly. For more information, see the section on Predictive aim
above.
Use collision cells

Page 465 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Whether to use the collision cells optimisation when looking for targets that are within range.
Usually this is faster, but with extremely long ranges it can sometimes be slower.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.

Turret conditions
Has target

True if the turret currently has a target acquired.
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled. When disabled it will have no effect on the object.
On shoot

Triggered at the frequency given by the Rate of fire property, when the turret both has a
target and has rotated to point towards it. If the turret is to fire upon the target, you should
spawn a projectile from the turret in this trigger.
On target acquired

Triggered when the turret has no target, but acquires one as it enters range.

Turret actions
Acquire target

Target a specific object if it is in range. If the object is out of range, the action is ignored. If in
range, the turret will switch to targeting the given object, even if it already has a different
target. Note if Target mode is Nearest, the turret may still immediately switch to a nearer
target.
Add object to target

Use on startup to tell the turret which objects it should target. Use a Family Paid plans only
to conveniently target a whole group of objects.
Clear targets

Remove all targets added using the Add object to target action. The turret will no longer
target any objects at all.

Page 466 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Unacquire target

Tell the turret to forget its existing target, even if it is in range. This frees it up to target a
different object, but it may choose to immediately target the same object again unless the
Acquire target action is used immediately afterwards.
Set enabled

Enable or disable the behavior. If disabled, the behavior will not detect targets, rotate the
object, or run any triggers.
Set predictive aim
Set projectile speed
Set range
Set rate of fire
Set rotate
Set rotate speed
Set target mode

Set the corresponding properties. For more information, see Turret properties.

Turret expressions
Range
RateOfFire
RotateSpeed

Retrieve the corresponding properties. For more information, see Turret properties.
TargetUID

Get the UID of the currently targeted object, if any. For more information about UIDs, see
instances.

Page 467 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

TWEEN
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/tween

The Tween behavior animates the values of properties over time. For example you can "tween"
an object's position to (100, 100), which will move it from its current position to the target
position over time. Different ease functions can be used to alter the rate at which the value
changes over time, for example using a Linear function for a constant-rate motion, In Out
Sinusoidal for a sine-curve based movement which speeds up then slows down, and many more.
Custom ease curves can also be designed with the Ease editor.
Click here to open an example of the Tween behavior.
The term "tween" comes from the term "Inbetweening", referring to generating intermediate
frames in between two states.
Tweening to a position moves objects over a fixed time. If you need to move objects to a
position using a maximum speed with acceleration and deceleration, use the Move To
behavior instead.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the ITweenBehaviorInstance script interface.

Tween types
Construct's Tween behavior has three types of tween:
1

One-property tween, affecting only a single value, e.g. the X co-ordinate or the angle

2

Two-property tween, affecting a pair of values, e.g. the position (X and Y co-ordinates), size
(width and height) or the scale (a percentage of real size)

3

Value tween, which just tweens a number rather than affecting a property. This can be used to
apply the tween to anything else in events, such as behavior properties or effect parameters.
Value tweens must also specify the start value, since it cannot be taken from a property.

These types are used by the three tween actions: Tween (one property), Tween (two properties)
and Tween (value).

Tagging

Page 468 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The Tween behavior can manage multiple tweens simultaneously. To help identify them
separately, each tween can be given a tag, which is just a string of any name you like to identify
the tween. The tag is optional and can be left empty if you don't need to modify or identify the
tween at any point later on.
Tweens can also be given multiple tags, separated by spaces. This can be useful to group
tweens together under a common tag while also providing a unique tag to target them
individually.
Actions, conditions and expressions which expect tags as an argument will match any tweens
which include all of the provided tags.

Tagging examples
Given these tweens with these tags:
Name Tags
Tween1 "common size width"
Tween2 "common size height"
Tween3 "common color"

This will be the expected matches:
Tag
Matches
"common"
All Tweens
"common size"
Tween1 and Tween2
"common size width"
Tween1
"color"
Tween3
"width"
Tween1
"size"
Tween1 and Tween2
"common size width height" No Tweens

Also note:
Actions using tags affect all matching tweens.
In the case of conditions, all the matching tweens are evaluated and if any is true, then the
condition will be fulfilled.
In the case of expressions, the first matching tween will be the one used to get the value
from.
Tags are case insensitive. For example "mytag", "MyTag" and "MYTAG" are all the same as far
as tweens are concerned.

Tween properties
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.

Tween conditions
Page 469 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Is any playing

True if any tween is currently playing.
Is playing

Test if a tween matching all the given tags is currently playing.
Is any paused

True if any tween is currently paused.
Is paused

Test if a tween matching all the given tags is currently paused.
Is any ping-pong

True if any tween is in the provided ping-pong State
Is ping-pong

True if a tween matching all the given tags is in the provided ping-pong State
On any finished

Triggered when any tween finishes. Use the Tags expression to get the tag string for the
tween that finished.
On finished

Triggered when a tween matching all the given tags finishes.
On any looped

Triggered when any tween loops. Use the Tags expression to get the tag string for the tween
that looped.
On looped

Triggered when a tween matching all the given tags loops.
On any ping-pong

Triggered when any tween ping-pongs. Use the State parameter to specify at which point of
the ping-pong the trigger should take place. Use the Tags expression to get the tag string for
the tween that ping-ponged.

Page 470 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On ping-pong

Triggered when a tween matching all the given tags ping-pongs. Use the State parameter to
specify at which point of the ping-pong the trigger should take place. Use the Tags
expression to get the tag string for the tween that ping-ponged.

Tween actions - one property
Set end value

Change the end value for an existing one-property tween matching all the given tags.
Tween (one property)

Start a tween for a single property. Tags are optional space-separated tags to identify the
tween, and can be left blank if not used. Property chooses which property of the object to
modify. The start value of the tween uses the current value of the property. End value
specifies the value to tween to. Time is the duration of the tween in seconds. Ease specifies
an ease function affecting the rate of change over time. Destroy on complete can be set to
Yes to automatically destroy the instance when the tween finishes, useful for fade-out
effects. Like timelines, a one property tween can be set to Loop and/or Ping Pong and given a
Repeat count.

Tween actions - two properties
Set end values

Change the end value for an existing two-property tween matching all the given tags.
Tween (two properties)

Start a tween for two properties. Tags are optional space-separated tags to identify the
tween, and can be left blank if not used. Property chooses which property pair of the object
to modify. The start value of the tween uses the current value of the properties. End X and
End Y specify the end value for each of the two properties. Time is the duration of the tween
in seconds. Ease specifies an ease function affecting the rate of change over time. Destroy
on complete can be set to Yes to automatically destroy the instance when the tween finishes,
useful for fade-out effects. Like timelines, a two property tween can be set to Loop and/or
Ping Pong and given a Repeat count.

Tween actions - value
Set end value

Change the end value for an existing value tween matching all the given tags.
Set start value

Page 471 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
Set start value

Change the start value for an existing value tween matching all the given tags.
Tween (value)

Start a tween for a number, independent of any properties. Tags are optional spaceseparated tags to identify the tween, and can be left blank if not used. Start value and End
value specify the start and end value to tween through. Time is the duration of the tween in
seconds. Ease specifies an ease function affecting the rate of change over time. Destroy on
complete can be set to Yes to automatically destroy the instance when the tween finishes,
useful for fade-out effects. Use the Value expression to retrieve the current value of the
tween over time, such as to apply it to a different object, behavior or effect. Like timelines, a
value tween can be set to Loop and/or Ping Pong and given a Repeat count.

Tween actions - playback
Pause
Resume

Pause and resume an existing tween matching all the given tags. Pausing a tween will stop it
at its current progress, and resuming will continue from where it was paused.
Pause all
Resume all

Pause and resume all current tweens.
Stop

Stop a tween matching all the given tags. Stopping a tween permanently ends a tween - it
cannot be resumed afterwards.
Stop all

Stop all tweens. This permanently ends all tweens so no more tweens can be referenced
until a new tween is started.

Tween actions - setters
Set destroy on complete
Set all destroy on complete
Set ease
Set all eases

Set the Destroy on complete and Ease parameters specified in the Tween action for existing
tweens matching all the given tags. The all variants modify all tweens regardless of tags.
Page 472 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set playback rate
Set all playback rates

Set the playback rate of existing tweens matching all the given tags, or all tweens regardless
of tags. A playback rate of 1 is normal speed, 0.5 half as fast, 2 twice as fast, and so on.
Set time
Set all times

Set the playback time in seconds of existing tweens matching all the given tags, or all
tweens regardless of tags. For example setting a time of 1 will skip the tween to playing as if
it was 1 second after the tween was started.
Set enabled

Enable or disable the entire behavior. If disabled, the behavior will not affect any properties or
advance any tweens.

Tween expressions
Note expressions can only return a single value. When specifying tags, expressions return the
value for the first tween with all the given tags.
Progress(tag)

Return the progress of a tween by its tags in the range 0-1.
Tags

This expression can be used in the various triggers to get the tag string of the associated
tween.
Time(tag)

Return the playback time of a tween by its tags, in seconds since the tween was started.
PlaybackRate(tag)

Return the playback rate of a tween by its tags.
Value(tag)

Return the current value of a value tween by its tags.

Page 473 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

WRAP BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/wrap

The Wrap behavior re-positions an object to the opposite side of the layout or viewport if it
leaves the area. The object only wraps once it is fully outside the area, i.e. no part of its bounding
box is in the layout or viewport area.

Wrap properties
Wrap to

Whether to wrap the object when it leaves the layout area, or when it leaves the visible
viewport.

Wrap conditions
On wrap

Triggered when the object position is changed by wrapping. For example if the object goes
past the right edge of the wrap area and so is repositioned to the left of the wrap area, then
On wrap will trigger.

Page 474 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PLUGIN REFERENCE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference

This section provides a reference of all the official plugins that come with Construct. Each has
an overview of its use, a list of its properties, and a detailed list of the actions, conditions and
expressions specific to that plugin.
Many plugins share common actions, conditions and expressions. These are described in
Common features rather than repeating the information for each plugin.

Page 475 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

COMMON FEATURES
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/commonfeatures

Many plugins share common conditions, actions and expressions, such as for the object's size
and position. Rather than repeating the descriptions of these for each plugin, they are listed in
this section.
Not all objects use all the common features; some may use only a few of the ones listed here.
This is provided as a reference for all the possible features that may be shown to you in
Construct rather than describing any particular plugin's features.
Common conditions
Common actions
Common expressions

Other common features
Many objects share other common features. This manual section only covers the common
conditions, actions and expressions. For more information on other common features see the
manual section on instances.

Page 476 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

COMMON CONDITIONS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/commonfeatures/common-conditions

The following conditions are common to several plugins.

Angle
Note angles in Construct start with 0 degrees facing right and increment clockwise.
Is between angles

True if the object's current angle is between the two given angles in degrees. The first and
second angles must be in clockwise order. That is, Is between 0 and 45 degrees is true if the
object is in a 45 degree area, but Is between 45 and 0 degrees is true if the object is in the
315 degree area from 45 degrees through 0 degrees.
Is clockwise from

True if the object's current angle is clockwise from the given angle in degrees. Invert to test if
the object is anticlockwise from the given angle. For example, an object at 45 degrees is
clockwise from 0 degrees, but an object at 0 degrees is anticlockwise from 45 degrees.
Is within angle

True if the object's current angle is within a number of degrees of another angle. This is more
reliable than testing if the object's angle exactly equals an angle, e.g. Is within 0.5 degrees of
90 degrees is probably better than Angle equals 90 degrees, since there are many cases an
object can be very close to, but not exactly, 90 degrees.

Appearance
Compare opacity

Compare the object's current opacity, from 0 (transparent) to 100 (opaque).
Is effect enabled

Test if one of the effects added to the object is currently enabled.
Is visible

True if the object is currently visible. Invert to test if invisible. This only tests the visibility set
by the Set visible action; it is not affected by the object being offscreen, having 0 opacity, or
Page 477 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

being on an invisible layer.

Collisions
Is overlapping another object
Is overlapping at offset

True if any instance is overlapping any instance of another object. Collision polygons are
taken in to account (if any), as well as the object's size and rotation. The offset variant will
test for an overlap at an offset from the first object. For example, testing for an overlap at an
offset of (100, 0) will temporarily move the object to the right 100 pixels, test for the overlap,
then move it back again.
On collision with another object

Triggered upon the first time any instance starts overlapping any instance of another object.
The collision polygons are taken in to account if set, as well as the object's size and rotation.

Hierarchy
These conditions are available for plugins that support the scene graph feature, allowing objects
to be connected together so they move, rotate and scale as if they were one large object.
Compare child count

Compare the number of children that are currently attached to the object (using the Add child
action).The Which option can be set to:
Own: only the object's direct children are compared
All: all children of the object are compared, including children-of-children, all the way to
the bottom of the hierarchy
Has children

True if any children have been attached to the object (i.e. the child count is greater than 0).
Has parent

True if this object is currently attached to another object.
On hierarchy ready

Triggered for the root (top parent) instance in a hierarchy after On created has triggered for
all instances in the hierarchy. For a specific instance in a hierarchy, when On created triggers,
it is not certain that On created has yet triggered for other instances in the hierarchy, which

Page 478 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

can complicate initializing hierarchies. This trigger gives you an opportunity to initialize a
hierarchy once On created has been triggered for all instances in the hierarchy.
Pick children

Pick the children of a given object type or family attached to this object. The Which option
can be set to:
Own: only the object's direct children are picked
All: all children of the object are picked, including children-of-children, all the way to the
bottom of the hierarchy
Bottom: only children at the bottom of the hierarchy from this object are picked, i.e.
children with no further children of their own.
Pick nth child

Pick a specific child of this object at a given zero-based index. This only picks from the
object's own children (children-of-children are excluded). When Index type is all, the index is
in to the list of all children of any type. The object type or family of the child must still be
specified; if it is the wrong type, it won't be picked even if there is a child at the given index.
When Index type is filtered, the index is in to the list of children of the specified object type
only. For example if a parent has three children of object types Leg, Arm, and Leg, and the
condition is used to pick child Leg at index 1, index type all will not pick anything (as there is
an Arm child there instead), whereas index type filtered will pick the second Leg instance (as
that is index 1 in to all Leg children).
Pick parent

Pick the parent of a given object type or family this object is attached to. The Which option
can be set to:
Own: only the object's direct parent is picked
All: all parents of the object are picked, all the way to the top of the hierarchy
Top: only the parent at the top of the hierarchy from this object is picked, i.e. the parent
not attached to any other parent.

HTML element

Page 479 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

These conditions are available for some plugins in the Form controls category, like Button and
Text Input. These objects are HTML elements placed on top of the canvas.
Is enabled

True if the element is currently enabled, and can be interacted with.
Is focused

True if the element is currently focused, meaning it will receive keyboard input. Typically this
also involves a visual indication of focus as well.
Is visible

True if the element is currently visible. Otherwise the element still exists and preserves its
contents, but is hidden.

Instance variables
Compare instance variable

Compare the current value of one of the object's number or text type instance variables.
Is boolean instance variable set

Test if one of the object's boolean instance variables is set to true. Invert the condition to test
if false.
Pick highest/lowest

Pick the single instance with the highest or the lowest instance variable value of all the
instances. Note this still only picks a single instance even if multiple instances have the
same highest or lowest value; in this case an arbitrary instance is selected.

Misc
On created
On destroyed

Triggered for each instance that is created or destroyed during the running of the game. On
created is also trigged for each object already on a layout when the layout starts. For
example, a one-shot particle effect could be spawned every time an object is created, and an
explosion created every time the object is destroyed. These conditions are analogous to
constructors and destructors in traditional programming languages (commands which run at
the creation and destruction of an object). Be careful not to create an object of the same
type in an On created event (e.g. On Sprite2 created: create Sprite2) since this will create an
infinite loop and cause the game to hang.
Page 480 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On signal

Triggered when the Signal action is run with a matching tag (case insensitive).

Pick
Pick by unique ID

Pick the instance matching a given unique ID (UID) number.
Pick nearest/furthest

Pick the instance either nearest or furthest from a given position in the layout.

Size & Position
Compare width
Compare height

Compare the object's current size, in pixels.
Compare X
Compare Y

Compare the object's current position in the layout, in pixels. Note that objects can be
positioned between pixels, e.g. at (5.5, 10.33333). Because of this it's usually a bad idea to
rely on an object being at an exact position.
Is on-screen

True if any part of the object's bounding box is within the screen area. This is not affected by
the object's visibility or opacity.
Is outside layout
