# Manual Construct 3  Parte 12 (líneas 1320114400)

## Resumen
- Scripting (línea 7)
- When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via (línea 8)
- the IOrbitBehaviorInstance script interface. (línea 9)
- Orbit properties (línea 11)
- Speed (línea 12)
- The speed to orbit at, in degrees per second. Positive is clockwise and negative is (línea 14)
- anticlockwise. (línea 15)
- Acceleration (línea 16)
- The rate of change to the orbit speed, in degrees per second per second. Positive will (línea 18)
- accelerate in a clockwise direction and negative will accelerate in an anticlockwise direction. (línea 19)
- Primary radius (línea 20)
- The distance of the orbit from its center point, in pixels. For a circular orbit, ensure the (línea 22)
- primary and secondary radii are the same. For elliptical orbits, the primary radius is the one (línea 23)
- in the direction of the offset angle. (línea 24)
- Secondary radius (línea 25)
- The perpendicular distance of the orbit from its center point, in pixels. For a circular orbit, (línea 27)
- ensure the primary and secondary radii are the same. For elliptical orbits, the secondary (línea 28)
- radius is the one perpendicular to the offset angle. (línea 29)
- Offset angle (línea 30)
- For elliptical orbits, the rotation of the ellipse in degrees. For circular orbits, this does not (línea 32)

## Contenido

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IOrbitBehaviorInstance script interface.

Orbit properties
Speed

The speed to orbit at, in degrees per second. Positive is clockwise and negative is
anticlockwise.
Acceleration

The rate of change to the orbit speed, in degrees per second per second. Positive will
accelerate in a clockwise direction and negative will accelerate in an anticlockwise direction.
Primary radius

The distance of the orbit from its center point, in pixels. For a circular orbit, ensure the
primary and secondary radii are the same. For elliptical orbits, the primary radius is the one
in the direction of the offset angle.
Secondary radius

The perpendicular distance of the orbit from its center point, in pixels. For a circular orbit,
ensure the primary and secondary radii are the same. For elliptical orbits, the secondary
radius is the one perpendicular to the offset angle.
Offset angle

For elliptical orbits, the rotation of the ellipse in degrees. For circular orbits, this does not
affect the orbit path (since rotating a circle has no effect), but it changes the initial angle the
orbit starts from.
Match rotation

Page 416 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If enabled, sets the object's angle to match the direction of travel in the orbit. If disabled the
behavior only changes the object's position without affecting the angle.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.
Preview Paid plans only

Enable to run a preview of the behavior directly in the Layout View.

Orbit conditions
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled.

Orbit actions
Pin
Unpin

Set another object as the location to orbit around, following the object if it moves. The Unpin
action will stop following the object.
Set acceleration
Set enabled
Set match rotation
Set offset angle
Set radius
Set speed

Set the corresponding behavior properties. See Orbit properties above.
Set rotation

Set the current orbit position by its angle from the center point in degrees.
Set target

Set the center point of the orbit in layout co-ordinates.
Reset total rotation

Page 417 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Sets the counters for the TotalRotation and AbsoluteTotalRotation to 0

Orbit expressions
Acceleration
OffsetAngle
PrimaryRadius
SecondaryRadius
Speed

Return the corresponding behavior properties. See Orbit properties above.
DistanceToTarget

Return the distance from the object to the center point of the orbit, in pixels.
Rotation

Return the current position of the orbit as its rotation relative to the center point in degrees.
TargetX
TargetY

Return the current center point of the orbit in layout co-ordinates.
TotalRotation

Return the total rotation of the instance in degrees. This value does not wrap at 360 degrees.
If the instance is rotating counter-clockwise then the value will decrease over time. This
counter can be cleared using the Reset total rotation action.
TotalAbsoluteRotation

Return the total rotation of the instance in degrees, ignoring rotation direction. This
expression is very similar to the TotalRotation expression, but rotation deltas are converted
to absolute values. This means the counter will always increase even if the instance is
rotating counter-clockwise. This counter can be cleared using the Reset total rotation action.

Page 418 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PATHFINDING BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/pathfinding

The Pathfinding behavior uses the A* pathfinding algorithm to efficiently find a short path
around obstacles. It can either report the path as a list of nodes through expressions, or
automatically move the object along the determined path.
Click here to open an example of the Pathfinding behavior to see how it can be used. Search for
Pathfinding in the Start Page to find an additional example.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IPathfindingBehaviorInstance script interface.

The pathfinding grid
The pathfinding behavior works based on dividing the layout in to a grid. Since pixel-perfect
pathfinding can be extremely slow to process, dividing the layout in to cells makes the
pathfinding enormously more efficient. The cell size can be set in the behavior property, and the
larger it is the more efficient pathfinding is. However setting a large cell size can cause
problems: a cell can only be entirely obstacle or entirely free, and using large cells can close up
small gaps. For example take the following arrangement of obstacles using a cell size of 32:

It appears that objects should be able to freely move around in between these objects. However
if the cells that the pathfinding behavior marks as obstacle are highlighted in red, we see this:

Page 419 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Some of the gaps have been closed off due to the cell size being relatively large compared to the
size of the gap. This will make the pathfinding behavior route paths entirely around the
obstacles, and never through them. We can help fix this by reducing the cell size to 20:

Now we can see that the Pathfinding behavior will be able to find routes between these
obstacles. However, the smaller cell size will make the pathfinding more CPU intensive.
Generally, try to use the largest cell size that does not cause problems navigating around
obstacles.
The Cell border property can adjust how cells are marked as obstacle. If the border is larger than
0, then cells close to obstacles but not actually touching may also be marked as obstacles,
effectively giving an extra "obstacle border". If the border is negative, cells only just touching an
obstacle may not be marked as an obstacle, effectively shrinking the obstacle area inwards. The
image below demonstrates the effect of different cell border values when using a cell size of 20.

For best efficiency, use the same cell size and border for all objects using the Pathfinding
behavior in a layout. If different objects use different values, then the Pathfinding behavior must
generate multiple obstacle grids in memory, and pathfind along them separately. You should
also avoid pathfinding every tick, since this will cause extremely high CPU usage and also
increase the amount of time it takes for other objects to determine their paths.
The grid of obstacles is only determined once on startup. If objects are moved in the layout, the
pathfinding grid is not updated, and objects will continue to pathfind as if the objects were in
their old positions. To update the entire obstacle grid use the Regenerate obstacle map action,
but note this is a very CPU-intense operation and should only be done on one-off occasions. It is
much more efficient to update only small parts of it (ideally only the area that has changed),
which can be done with the Regenerate region and Regenerate region around object actions.
The obstacle map also applies to all instances using the Pathfinding behavior - different
instances do not store separate obstacle maps, and so different per-instance obstacle settings
will not take effect.
Page 420 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Note all cells outside the layout area are always obstacles. Areas outside the layout area cannot
be included in the pathfinding grid, since doing so would require an infinite amount of memory.

Finding paths
Calculating a path can take a long time, especially if the cell size is small. To prevent this
reducing the game's framerate, the paths are calculated in the background (using a Web
Worker). This means after using the Find path action, the resulting path is not immediately
available. You must wait for the On path found trigger to run. Only then can you move the object
along the path, or access the list of nodes from the behavior's expressions. The game may
continue to run for a fraction of a second in between Find path and On path found.
The result path is a sequence of nodes along the grid. The image below demonstrates a fournode path (nodes 0 to 3).

The nodes can be retrieved (only after On path found) using the NodeCount and
NodeXAt/NodeYAt expressions. Alternatively, the Move along path action can be used to
automatically move the object along the nodes, using the speed, acceleration and rotation rate
set in the behavior's properties.
Note it may be impossible to find a path, such as trying to navigate to a destination inside a ring
of obstacles. In this case, On failed to find path will be triggered instead of On path found.
If you ask the pathfinding behavior to pathfind to a destination inside an obstacle, it will simply
find the nearest clear cell and pathfind to there instead.

Pathfinding properties
Cell size

The cell size, in pixels, of the grid of obstacles. See above for more details about how this is
used.
Cell border

The amount, in pixels, to expand the cell size by when testing for obstacles. See above for
more details about how this is used.

Page 421 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Obstacles

If Solids, the behavior will automatically mark cells touching objects with the Solid behavior
as being obstacles. If Custom, you must define which objects are obstacles by using the Add
obstacle action on startup.
Note this applies to all instances, since the obstacle map is shared. This setting cannot
be used to affect individual instances differently.

Max speed

If the Move along path action is used, the maximum speed in pixels per second the object
can move at.
Acceleration

If the Move along path action is used, the acceleration rate in pixels per second per second.
Deceleration

If the Move along path action is used, the deceleration rate in pixels per second per second,
used when approaching the final node.
Rotate speed

If the Move along path action is used, the rate at which the object can rotate in degrees per
second. Note this can affect the speed of the object: if the rotation speed is low, the object
will have to slow down on tight corners.
Rotate object

Whether to automatically set the angle of the object with the behavior to the angle of motion.
Diagonals

Whether paths moving along diagonals are allowed. If disabled, the result nodes along paths
will only ever change at 90-degree angles (up, right, down and left). If enabled nodes can
move along diagonals as well.
Direct movement

Specifies where path nodes may be removed if the box of cells enclosing nodes is
completely clear. The options are:
None: no path nodes are ever removed. This means even paths across entirely clear
areas will still place nodes for movement along the pathfinding grid.
Page 422 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

To destination: if the area enclosing both the start and end positions of a path are
completely clear, then this removes all path nodes except the last, allowing direct
movement from the start to the destination. However if the area is not completely clear, it
will still add path nodes to move along the pathfinding grid.
Anywhere along path: checks for any groups of nodes along the whole path where the
surrounding area is completely clear, and removes nodes so the path goes directly
across the clear area. This can provide a smoother path with fewer nodes and fewer
turns.
See the Pathfinding direct movement example for a visualization of how the setting changes
paths.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.

Pathfinding conditions
Compare speed

If moving along a path, compare the current speed of the object in pixels per second.
Diagonals are enabled

True if the Diagonals property allows moving diagonally along cells. This can also be
changed with the Set diagonals enabled action.
Is calculating path

True if the object is currently calculating a path in the background. This is true between the
Find path action and the On path found or On failed to find path triggers.
Is cell obstacle

Test if a cell in the obstacle grid is marked as an obstacle. This is useful for debugging or
displaying the obstacle grid. Note the position is taken in cell co-ordinates rather than layout
co-ordinates.
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled. When disabled it will have no effect on the object.
Is moving along path

Page 423 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

True after using the Move along path action until On arrived triggers.
On arrived

Triggered after Move along path when the object finally arrives at its destination.
On failed to find path

Triggered after the Find path action if no path can be found to the destination, such as if it is
surrounded by a ring of obstacles.
On path found

Triggered after the Find path action once a path has successfully been found to the
destination. The nodes are now available via the NodeCount, NodeXAt and NodeYAt
expressions, and the Move along path action can also be used.

Pathfinding actions
Add obstacle

If the Obstacles property is Custom, add an object type to mark as an obstacle in the
pathfinding grid. If this is done during the game (after Start of layout), you must also use
Regenerate obstacle map for it to take effect.
Note this applies to all instances of both object types involved. This action does not
affect individual instances.

Add path cost

Add an object to increase the path cost in the pathfinding grid. This can be used to simulate
rough terrain - the behavior will try to find paths around them if possible, unless the route is a
major shortcut. See the Pathfinding path cost in the Start Page for a demo. If this is done
during the game (after Start of layout), you must also use Regenerate obstacle map for it to
take effect.
Clear cost

Remove all path cost objects added with Add path cost. You must also use Regenerate
obstacle map for this to take effect.
Clear obstacles

Remove all obstacle objects added with Add obstacle. You must also use Regenerate
obstacle map for this to take effect.

Page 424 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Find path

Start calculating a path to a destination in the layout. This is processed in the background
and the results are not immediately ready after this action; you must wait until the On path
found or On failed to find path triggers run before the result is known or the path can be
moved along. If this action is used while Is calculating path is true, the old path is still
calculated and the result triggered, but it then immediately begins calculating the new path
and will also trigger for that result.
Regenerate obstacle map

Determine whether each cell in the obstacles grid is an obstacle again. This is a very CPU
intensive action and should not be used regularly. If only part of the obstacle map has
changed, prefer to use one of the Regenerate region actions. Any changes made by using
Add obstacle, Clear obstacles, Add path cost and Clear cost will take effect the next tick after
this action. Note this means if you attempt to find a path immediately after this action, the
obstacle map won't have been updated yet; add a Wait action with a short delay to make sure
the updated map is used in that case.
Regenerate region
Regenerate region around object

As with Regenerate obstacle map, but only the specified area is updated. This is usually
considerably faster than regenerating the entire map. However as with regenerating the
entire obstacle map, changes only take effect next tick. Regenerate region takes a rectangle
in layout co-ordinates to regenerate. Regenerate region around object similarly regenerates
the rectangle in the layout given by an object's bounding box. Note if multiple instances have
met the event's conditions, this will regenerate multiple rectangles (one for every picked
object).
Set enabled

Set whether the behavior is enabled or disabled. If disabled, it will not calculate any paths or
move the object.
Set move cost

Set the base path cost for moving a single cell. This affects the relative cost of additional
costs added by other features such as the Add path cost action and path groups. The default
is 10. The move cost is rounded to an integer, and it is multiplied by the square root of 2 for
the diagonal move cost if diagonals are enabled.
Start path group
End path group

Page 425 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Start and end a path group, which can be used to spread out paths found while inside the
group. When a path is found inside the group, it adds a cost to cells along the discovered
path in order to discourage subsequent paths in the same group from following the same
path. Once the path group is ended, all added costs from the group are removed and normal
pathfinding is restored. The parameters that affect path groups are:
Base cost: The cost to add for each cell along a found path. Higher costs will spread out
paths more. Paths are found across multiple independent workers which don't include
the costs added by paths found in other workers; in order to compensate for this, the
base cost is multiplied by the number of workers.
Cell spread: How many cells around the found path to add the cost to. A higher cell
spread will cause paths to be spread out more. Prefer to use an odd number for a
symmetrical spread around the path. For example a cell spread of 1 only adds costs to
the cells directly along the path, and a cell spread of 3 will add costs to every 3x3 box of
cells along the path.
Max workers: The maximum number of Web Workers allowed to be used for finding
paths inside this path group. As each worker is independent and doesn't see the costs
added from paths found in other workers, using multiple workers can still result in some
paths being found along the same route. Limiting to 1 worker avoids this happening, but
also can significantly reduce performance, as it will not use all available CPU cores for
pathfinding. Using a higher number improves performance, but can still result in some
repeat paths. This number can only reduce the number of workers used (i.e. if it is higher
than the number of CPU cores it will have no effect).
See the Pathfinding groups example for a visualization of the effect of spreading out paths
with this feature.
Move along path

Automatically start moving the object along the found path. This can only be used after On
path found - the path is not immediately known after the Find path action.
You can also use the Move To behavior's Move along Pathfinding path action as an
alternative, since the Move To behavior uses a different movement algorithm.

Set speed

Set the current speed of the object if it is currently moving along its path, in pixels per
second. This cannot be negative or greater than the maximum speed of the behavior.
Stop

Page 426 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If the object is moving along its path, causes it to stop.
Set acceleration
Set deceleration
Set diagonals enabled
Set max speed
Set rotate speed
Set direct movement

Set the corresponding behavior properties. See the property definitions above for more
information.

Pathfinding expressions
CurrentNode

When moving along a path, the zero-based index of the node the object is currently moving
towards. This may skip ahead just before the object actually reaches the next node, in order
to help it round corners.
MovingAngle

The current angle of motion when moving along a path, in degrees.
NodeCount

The number of nodes in the path that was found. This is only updated after On path found.
NodeXAt
NodeYAt

Return the position of a node in the path that was found, in layout co-ordinates, using the
zero-based index of the node. This is only available after On path found.
Speed

The current speed in pixels per second when moving along a path.
Acceleration
CellSize
Deceleration
MaxSpeed
RotateSpeed

Page 427 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Return the current values of the behavior properties. For more information, see the property
definitions above.

Page 428 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PERSIST BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/persist

The Persist behavior makes the object remember its state when going to a different layout, then
coming back. If a layout has objects with the Persist behavior, it is also referred to as a persistent
layout. For an interactive example of its use, click here to open the Persistent Layouts example.
Normally if you leave a layout then come back, all non-global objects reset to their initial design
in the Layout View. However for many games this is undesirable; powerups come back, enemies
respawn and return to full health, and so on. Adding the Persist behavior to certain objects
means that they are restored to the same state you left them in when returning to a layout. Any
objects that were previously destroyed remain destroyed; any new objects that were created will
come back; and all properties such as instance variables are remembered. This is important for
allowing the user to return to previous areas without having to redo the whole section.

Page 429 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PHYSICS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/physics

The Physics behavior simulates realistic object physics. It is powered by Box2D. Construct
comes with several examples demonstrating what the Physics behavior can do; filter by the
Physics behavior in the Example Browser to find them.
The Physics behavior is relatively complex. The following tutorials are recommended to gain a
basic understanding of how to use the Physics behavior and some important points to know
before beginning to use it:
Physics in Construct: The basics
Physics in Construct: Forces, impulses, torque and joints
This manual section will not repeat the information in these tutorials. Instead it will describe
each feature of the Physics behavior. The tutorials describe how Physics engines work, what the
different types of joints are, the difference between impulses and forces, and so on in case
you're not already familiar with them.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IPhysicsBehaviorInstance script interface.

Using Physics in Construct
The Physics behavior simulates physics separately to the Construct layout. Construct will try to
keep the Physics and Construct "worlds" synchronised if one changes but not the other, but this
can be unpredictable. For example, setting an object's position or angle will cause Construct to
teleport the corresponding object in the physics simulation to the object's new position, which
does not always properly take in to account collisions. The same is true of using other Construct
behaviors at the same time as Physics.
Therefore it is highly recommended to control Physics objects entirely via the Physics behavior
(by setting forces, impulses, torques etc.), rather than trying to manipulate objects by Set
position, Set angle etc.
Another consequence is Physics won't respond to objects with the Solid or Jumpthru behaviors.
These behaviors are totally redundant when using Physics and have no effect. Instead, use the
Immovable property.

Physics properties
Immovable

Page 430 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

If enabled, simulate the object having infinite mass. Its density is ignored and it will never
move.
Collision mask

How to handle physics collisions for this object. The options are:
Use collision polygon uses the object's collision polygon from the Animations editor for
physics collisions. If it doesn't have a collision polygon it will use the object's bounding
box.
Bounding box ignores the object's collision polygon if any, and for the purposes of
Physics collisions considers the object to be a rectangle.
Circle ignores the object's collision polygon if any, and for the purposes of Physics
collisions considers the object to be a circle. This allows objects to smoothly roll along
(like for example barrels). This is especially useful since object's collision polygons is
made out of straight lines, so a smooth circle cannot be created that way.
Prevent rotation

Prevents the object from rotating when colliding with other Physics objects. Note this does
not completely prevent the object from rotating - it only stops rotation caused by Physics
collisions.
Density

The density of the physics object. Only used if Immovable is disabled. The object mass is
calculated as its density multiplied by the area of its collision mask. The exact density values
used are not important and have no specific units - only the relative density is significant (i.e.
an object with density 6 will be twice as dense as an object with density 3).
Friction

The friction coefficient of the physics object from 0 (no friction) to 1 (maximum friction).
This adjusts how easily objects move against each other while touching.
Elasticity

The elasticity (also known as restitution or bounciness) of the physics object, from 0
(inelastic, like a rock) to 1 (maximum elasticity, like a rubber ball). This affects how high
objects bounce when hitting the floor.
Linear damping

Page 431 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The rate the object slows down over time while moving, from 0 (no slowdown at all) to 1
(maximum slowdown).
Angular damping

The rate the object slows down over time while spinning, from 0 (no slowdown at all) to 1
(maximum slowdown).
Bullet

Enable enhanced collision detection for fast-moving objects. This can affect performance, so
do not enable it unless the object moves so fast the physics engine's standard collision
detection is unreliable.
Enabled

Whether the physics simulation is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, no physics is
processed for the object, and other physics objects can pass through the object as if it were
empty space.

Physics conditions
Compare angular velocity

Compare the current angular velocity of the physics body, in degrees per second. A positive
value indicates clockwise rotation and a negative value indicates anticlockwise rotation.
Compare mass

Compare the mass of the physics body. This is determined by multiplying the Density by the
area of the object's collision polygon.
Compare velocity

Compare the current velocity (speed) of the physics body, in pixels per second. The velocity
can be compared on an individual axis, such as just the X axis to compare the horizontal
motion, or the overall velocity can be used.
Is enabled

True if the physics behavior is currently enabled. When disabled the physics body is
completely removed from the physics simulation, so other physics objects will pass through
the object.
Is immovable

Page 432 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

True if the physics behavior is currently set to immovable (having an infinite mass and so
never moving).
Is sleeping

True if the object has been at rest and not moved or been disturbed for a while, so that the
physics engine can stop processing it. Note objects can still be moving imperceptibly which
can prevent them from being asleep even when they appear to be stopped.

Physics actions
Forces
Apply force
Apply force at angle
Apply force towards position

Apply a force on the object, either at an angle, towards a position, or with custom X and Y
axis forces. Applying a force causes the object to accelerate in the direction of the force.
Forces can be applied at an image point, which normally also causes the object to rotate.
Using 0 for the image point uses the object's center of mass, which does not cause
rotation. Use -1 to use the object's origin, which may be different to the center of mass and
cause rotation.
Apply impulse
Apply impulse at angle
Apply impulse towards position

Apply an impulse on the object, either at an angle, towards a position, or with custom X and
Y axis impulses. Applying an impulse simulates the object being struck, e.g. hit by a bat.
Impulses can be applied at an image point, which normally also causes the object to rotate.
Using 0 for the image point uses the object's center of mass, which does not cause
rotation. Use -1 to use the object's origin, which may be different to the center of mass and
cause rotation.
Set velocity

Set the object's current velocity directly, providing a speed in pixels per second for the X and
Y axes.
Teleport

Set the object position preserving the Physics velocity. Normally changing the position of the
object will reposition it, but alter the velocity to try to ensure the physics simulation remains
realistic even though some external change was made to the object position. Using the
Page 433 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Teleport action will reposition the object but not alter its Physics velocity in any way, which is
sometimes desirable for purposes such as if a Physics object goes through a portal and is
meant to appear somewhere else but with the same velocity.

Global settings
These actions affect Physics behaviors in general, not just the one it was set for.
Enable/disable collisions

By default, all Physics objects collide with each other. You can disable collisions between the
object and another Physics object so they pass through each other. This affects all instances
of both object types. Note: enabling collisions again when objects are overlapping can cause
instability in the simulation.
Set stepping iterations

Set the number of velocity iterations and position iterations used in the physics engine. The
default is 8 and 3 respectively. Lower values run faster but are less accurate, and higher
values can reduce performance but provide a more realistic simulation.
Set stepping mode

Choose whether the Physics time step uses dt (delta time, for Framerate independent) or a
fixed value. By default it uses delta time to ensure physics progresses at a regular speed on
displays with different refresh rates. However in some circumstances this can produce nondeterministic results, and note the Physics behavior clamps the maximum time step to 1/30
(about 33ms, equivalent to 30 FPS) to prevent the instability that can result from large time
steps. Set to Fixed to always use a time step of 1/60 (about 16ms) regardless of the
framerate, which makes the simulation deterministic, but will cause it to run at different
speeds on displays with different refresh rates.
Set world gravity

Set the force of gravity affecting all Physics objects. By default this is a force of 10
downwards.

Joints
Create distance joint

Fix two physics objects at a given distance apart, as if connected by a pole. An image point
can be specified to connect to a specific part of the object. Note that an image point of 0
specifies the center of gravity of the object - if you intend to connect to the object origin, use
-1.
Create revolute joint

Page 434 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
j
Create limited revolute joint

Hinge two physics objects together, so they can rotate freely as if connected by a pin.
Limited revolute joints only allow rotation through a certain range of angles, like the clapper
of a bell. An image point can also be specified to connect to a specific part of the object.
Note that an image point of 0 specifies the center of gravity of the object - if you intend to
connect to the object origin, use -1.
Create prismatic joint

Restrict the movement of two physics objects along a specific axis, given by its angle. Enable
limit specifies whether there is a lower and upper movement limit; if enabled these are given
by the lower and upper translation, otherwise unlimited movement is allowed along the axis.
A motor can also be enabled to provide a continuous force along the axis.
Remove all joints

Remove all joints from the object. Any objects this object was attached to via joints is also
affected. Note some joints automatically disable collisions between the objects, so you may
want to manually disable collisions again after removing joints otherwise overlapping objects
will "teleport" apart (as the physics engine will try to prevent them overlapping).

Object settings
These set the corresponding properties. For more information, see Physics properties. The one
exception is the Set awake action.
Set awake

Physics simulations are relatively CPU intensive, requiring a lot of calculations. To save
processor time, the Physics engine will make objects that have come to a complete stop go
in to "sleep" mode so they no longer require processing. However sometimes changes like
repositioning an adjacent object will leave the object in "sleep" mode so it will not respond
properly. In this situation the Set awake action can be used to force a sleeping object to
resume simulation. (It can also be used to force an object to go in to "sleep" mode, but note
this is normally done automatically when possible.)

Torque
Apply torque
Apply torque towards angle
Apply torque towards position

Apply a torque (rotational acceleration) to the object, either directly, or towards an angle or
position.

Page 435 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set angular velocity

Set the angular velocity (rate of rotation) directly, in degrees per second.

Physics expressions
AngularVelocity

The current angular velocity (rate of rotation) of the physics object, in degrees per second.
CenterOfMassX
CenterOfMassY

The position of the center of mass of the physics object, as calculated by the physics engine.
This depends on the collision mask property, and is not necessarily in the middle of the
object.
ContactCount

Return the number of locations the physics engine has identified this object as touching
other physics objects.
ContactXAt(index)
ContactYAt(index)

Return the position of a contact with another physics object, in layout co-ordinates, given by
the zero-based index of the contact.
Mass

The mass of the physics object, as calculated by the physics engine. This is the area of the
object's collision mask multiplied by its density.
VelocityX
VelocityY

The current speed of the physics object, in pixels per second.
AngularDamping
Density
Elasticity
Friction
LinearDamping

These return the corresponding properties. For more information, see Physics properties.
Page 436 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PIN BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/pin

The Pin behavior positions an object at a relative distance and angle to another object, giving
the impression it has been "pinned" to the object. It can also pin other properties like the size. For
examples, search for Pin in the Start Page.
Simply adding the Pin behavior to an object does not do anything. You must use the Pin action to
pin the object to another object.
The hierarchies feature is a modern built-in replacement for the Pin behavior. Consider using
the Add child action to connect objects together instead. This has better support for
connecting chains of objects together, provides conditions that can pick instances across
the hierarchy, and also allows hierarchies to be set up in the Layout View. See also
Superseded features.

Pin properties
Destroy with pinned object

Enable to automatically destroy this object if the object it is currently pinned to is destroyed.

Pin conditions
Is pinned

True if the object is currently pinned to another object.
Will destroy with pinned object

True if the Destroy with pinned object option is enabled.

Pin actions
Pin at distance

Pin the object to another object, restricting the distance between the objects. The two
possible modes are:
Rope style (maximum distance): the object is kept at a maximum distance from the
other object, but is allowed to move closer.

Page 437 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Bar style (fixed distance): the object is kept at a fixed distance from the other object, and
will be moved away if the object object gets closer.

Note the distance between the objects at the time this action runs is used as the distance
limit between the objects. The distance limit can be changed with the Set pin distance action.
Pin to object
Pin to image point

Pin one or more properties of the object to another object. The relative difference between
the objects at the moment the Pin action is used is remembered. A series of checkboxes
allows selection of which properties are to be kept pinned. For example ticking only the X
and Y options will keep the object at the same relative position, but not change its angle. The
Width and Height options have two possible modes if enabled: Absolute, which will apply the
same size change value (e.g. if the pinned object gets 10 pixels wider, this object will also get
10 pixels wider); and Scale, which will apply the same relative size change (e.g. if the pinned
object gets 50% wider, this object will also get 50% wider, relative to its starting size).
Pin to image point works the same as Pin to object, except instead of enabling the X and Y
properties, it specifies an image point on the pinned object (by its name or number). The
object will be positioned exactly at that image point while pinned, rather than keeping a
relative difference.
Set destroy with pinned object

Set the current state of the Destroy with pinned object property.
Set pin distance

When using Pin at distance, set the distance limit in pixels that is used.
Unpin

Unpin the object, so it is no longer being positioned by the Pin behavior.

Pin expressions
PinnedUID

Get the UID of the object currently pinned to, or -1 if not pinned. For more information on
UIDs, see instances.

Page 438 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PLATFORM BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/platform

The Platform behavior implements a side-view "jump and run" style movement. It supports
slopes, moving platforms, "jump-thru" platforms, and arbitrary angles of gravity. There are
several examples of the Platform behavior that can be found in the Start Page.
The Platform behavior will land on any objects with the Solid or Jump-thru behaviors. Jump-thru
is different in that the Platform movement can jump on to a Jump-thru from underneath,
whereas jumping in to a solid from underneath causes the player to bounce off. The image
below illustrates the difference.

Jump-thru vs. Solid behaviors

By default the Platform movement is controlled by the left and right arrow keys and up arrow to
jump. To set up custom or automatic controls, see the behavior reference summary.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IPlatformBehaviorInstance script interface.

Implementing reliable platform movements
For the most reliable platform movement, it is recommended to use a invisible rectangle sprite
with no animations with the Platform movement. Then, the animated player object can be
positioned on top of that. Otherwise, the changing size and collision polygon of the object as its
animation plays can interfere with the Platform movement's floor, wall and slope detection,
causing a shaking or glitchy movement. For more information and a complete guide, see the
tutorial How to make a Platform game.

Mirroring the player

Page 439 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

It is not necessary to duplicate all your artwork for the player for facing both left and right.
Instead, simply draw all the player's artwork for facing to the right, and use the Sprite object's Set
mirrored action to mirror the player's image. Set the player mirrored when pressing the
movement controls. An example is shown below.

A common question is how to make the player shoot left and right, since even when mirrored the
player will still shoot objects to the right. To solve this, use the Is mirrored condition, and if it is
true, shoot to the left instead.

Platform properties
Max speed

The maximum floor speed in pixels per second.
Acceleration

The horizontal movement acceleration in pixels per second per second.
Deceleration

The horizontal movement deceleration in pixels per second per second. When moving in the
opposite direction to the direction of motion, acceleration and deceleration combine.
Jump strength

The initial vertical speed of a jump in pixels per second when the jump key is pressed.
Gravity

The acceleration caused by gravity, in pixels per second per second.
Max fall speed

The maximum speed in pixels per second the object can accelerate to when in free-fall.
Double jump

If enabled, the player may make one extra mid-air jump before landing on the ground.
Jump sustain

Page 440 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Maximum time in milliseconds that the jump strength is sustained at while the jump control
is being held before the effect of gravity takes over. This allows for variable height jumps
depending on whether the jump control is tapped or held. For example if set to 200, then the
jump velocity is sustained for up to the first 200ms of holding the jump control.
Default controls

If enabled, movement is controlled by the left and right arrow keys and the up arrow key to
jump. Disable to set up custom controls using the Simulate control action. For more
information see the behavior reference summary.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.

Platform conditions
Compare speed

Compare the current speed of the object in pixels per second.
Is by wall

Test if a solid blocking horizontal movement is immediately to the object's left or right.
Jump-thrus do not count as walls.
Is double-jump enabled

True if double jumps are currently enabled. This is set by the Double jump property or Set
double-jump action.
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled. When disabled it will have no effect on the object.
Is falling

True if the object is in free-fall.
Is jumping

True if the object is moving upwards.
Is moving

True if the object's speed is non-zero.
Page 441 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Is on floor

True if the object is currently standing on a solid or jump-thru.
On fall
On jump
On landed
On moved
On stopped

These are animation triggers, which trigger when the platform movement is moving in to
each state. If your object has animations for any of these states, you should set the
appropriate animation in each trigger. This helps save you implementing the logic to detect
state transitions yourself.

Platform actions
Fall through

If the player is currently standing on a jump-thru platform, this action will make them fall
through it. This is useful for adding an additional control, e.g. down arrow, to jump down
from jump-thru platforms.
Reset double jump

Change whether a double-jump is allowed during the current jump. If disabled a double-jump
will no longer be allowed in the current jump, even if it is the first jump; if enabled a doublejump will be allowed again, even if a double-jump was already made in the current jump.
Set acceleration
Set deceleration
Set default controls
Set double-jump
Set gravity
Set jump strength
Set jump sustain
Set max fall speed
Set max speed

Set the corresponding properties. For more information, see Platform properties.
Set angle of gravity

Page 442 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Change the angle of gravity, in degrees. By default it is 90 (downwards on the screen). This
can interact interestingly with layer rotation.
Set ceiling collision

Change how the behavior handles collisions with the ceiling, when the movement is jumping
up and hits a solid. The default mode is Stop which means the vertical momentum is
immediately set to zero so the movement immediately falls down again. Changing the mode
to Preserve momentum will not change the vertical momentum when hitting a solid while
jumping. This means the player can stick to the ceiling until gravity overcomes their upwards
momentum; it can also allow the player to jump up past a corner of a solid even if they hit
the solid vertically first.
Set enabled

Enable or disable the Platform movement. When disabled, the behavior has no effect on the
object at all.
Set ignoring input

Set whether input is being ignored. If input is ignored, pressing any of the control keys has no
effect. However, unlike disabling the behavior, the object can continue to move, e.g. if in freefall.
Set vector X
Set vector Y

Manually set the horizontal and vertical components of motion, in pixels per second. For
example, setting the vector Y to -1000 would cause a jump with strength 1000, which could
be useful for implementing springs.
Simulate control

Simulate one of the movement controls being held down. Useful when Default controls is
disabled. See the behavior reference summary for more information.

Platform expressions
Acceleration
Deceleration
Gravity
JumpStrength
JumpSustain
MaxFallSpeed

Page 443 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

MaxSpeed

Return the corresponding properties. For more information, see Platform properties.
GravityAngle

Get the current angle of gravity, in degrees.
MovingAngle

Return the current angle of motion in degrees, which can be different to the object's angle.
Speed

Return the current overall speed in pixels per second.
VectorX
VectorY

Return the current X and Y components of motion, in pixels per second.

Page 444 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ROTATE BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/rotate

The Rotate behavior makes an object spin.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IRotateBehaviorInstance script interface.

Rotate properties
Speed

The rate of rotation, in degrees per second. Use a positive value for clockwise rotation and
negative for anticlockwise rotation.
Acceleration

The rate the rotation speed changes, in degrees per second per second. Use a positive value
to accelerate clockwise and a negative to accelerate anticlockwise.
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.
Preview Paid plans only

Enable to run a preview of the behavior directly in the Layout View.

Rotate conditions
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled. When disabled it will have no effect on the object.

Rotate actions
Set acceleration
Set speed

Set the corresponding properties. See Rotate properties.

Page 445 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set enabled

Enable or disable the movement. If disabled, the behavior will stop rotating the object.

Rotate expressions
Acceleration

Return the corresponding Acceleration property.
Speed

Return the current rotating speed, in degrees per second. A positive value indicates
clockwise rotation and a negative value indicates anticlockwise rotation.

Page 446 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SCROLL TO BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/scroll-to

The Scroll To behavior centers the view on the object with the behavior. It is a shortcut for the
Scroll to object system action. However, it also provides a Shake action to shake the screen, and
if multiple objects have the Scroll To behavior, it will center the view in between all of them.
If you need more advanced scrolling, e.g. limited to certain regions or following the player after a
delay, scroll to an invisible object which you control through events.
To scroll, the size of the layout must be bigger than the project's viewport size, or the layout's
Unbounded scrolling property must be enabled. Otherwise there is nowhere to scroll to and
scrolling will have no effect.

Scroll To properties
Enabled

Whether the behavior is initially enabled or disabled. If disabled, it can be enabled at runtime
using the Set enabled action.

Scroll To conditions
Is enabled

Test if the behavior is currently enabled. When disabled it will have no effect on the object.

Scroll To actions
Set enabled

Enable or disable the behavior. When disabled, the scrolling will not be affected.
Shake

Shake the screen for a duration of time, by randomly offsetting the scroll position every tick.
The Magnitude is the maximum distance in pixels from the scrolled position the view will be
offset. The Duration is how long the shake will last in seconds. In Reducing magnitude mode,
the Magnitude will gradually reduce to zero by the end of the shake duration. In Constant
magnitude mode, the Magnitude will stay the same throughout the full duration of the shake,
ending abruptly.

Scroll To expressions
Page 447 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The Scroll To behavior has no expressions.

Page 448 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SHADOW CASTER BEHAVIOR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/behavior-reference/shadowcaster

The Shadow caster behavior marks an object as casting a shadow from a Shadow light object.
For more information, see the documentation for Shadow light.
Shadows are cast from the object's collision polygon, if it has one, otherwise its bounding
rectangle.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this behavior can be accessed via
the IShadowCasterBehaviorInstance script interface.

Collision polygon shape
Objects with the Shadow caster behavior must use convex collision polygons. Shadows will not
render correctly if they use concave polygons. If you need a concave shape, this can always be
achieved by placing multiple shadow caster objects next to each other to compose a concave
shape out of convex parts.
