# Manual Construct 3  Parte 23 (líneas 2640127600)

## Resumen
- ConnectionType (línea 7)
- If the connection type cannot be detected or the platform does not support this feature, (línea 10)
- Downlink (línea 16)
- The estimated effective download bandwidth in megabits per second. Returns 0 if unable to (línea 18)
- detect. (línea 19)
- DownlinkMax (línea 20)
- The maximum downlink speed in megabits per second of the underlying connection (línea 22)
- specification allows, for example 4G cellular allows a higher maximum speed than 3G under (línea 24)
- like signal quality and other parts of the network. Returns 0 if unable to detect. (línea 26)
- FramesPerSecond (línea 27)
- How many frames per second (FPS) the project is rendering. The most common display (línea 29)
- refresh rate is 60 Hz, so typically an efficiently designed project will render at 60 FPS. Note (línea 30)
- however if nothing is changing on-screen, then nothing is rendered, and so the FPS (línea 31)
- only that fewer frames are necessary to render. The TicksPerSecond expression indicates (línea 33)
- how frequently the engine is stepping, which may be different to the frames rendered per (línea 34)
- second. (línea 35)
- TicksPerSecond (línea 36)
- How many ticks per second (TPS) the project is running at. Each tick processes the logic of (línea 38)
- the game. Usually a new frame is also rendered every tick, but if nothing changes then (línea 39)
- and drawing frames may happen at different rates. Therefore the ticks per second may (línea 41)

## Contenido

ConnectionType

The type of network connection technology in use, e.g. "cellular" , "wifi" or "ethernet" .
If the connection type cannot be detected or the platform does not support this feature,
returns "unknown" .
Page 753 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Downlink

The estimated effective download bandwidth in megabits per second. Returns 0 if unable to
detect.
DownlinkMax

The maximum downlink speed in megabits per second of the underlying connection
technology. This is normally the theoretical maximum the current network technology's
specification allows, for example 4G cellular allows a higher maximum speed than 3G under
ideal signal conditions; however the actual available bandwidth will depend on other factors
like signal quality and other parts of the network. Returns 0 if unable to detect.
FramesPerSecond

How many frames per second (FPS) the project is rendering. The most common display
refresh rate is 60 Hz, so typically an efficiently designed project will render at 60 FPS. Note
however if nothing is changing on-screen, then nothing is rendered, and so the FPS
measurement may fall to 0 or display a lower result; this does not indicate poor performance,
only that fewer frames are necessary to render. The TicksPerSecond expression indicates
how frequently the engine is stepping, which may be different to the frames rendered per
second.
TicksPerSecond

How many ticks per second (TPS) the project is running at. Each tick processes the logic of
the game. Usually a new frame is also rendered every tick, but if nothing changes then
rendering a frame is skipped; further, depending on the framerate mode, stepping the engine
and drawing frames may happen at different rates. Therefore the ticks per second may
produce a different measurement to the frames per second. Usually the project will
continually tick even if nothing is visually changing, and only stop ticking if the project is
suspended, such as by being minimized or going in to the background.

Page 754 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

PROGRESS BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/progress-bar

The Progress bar object displays a bar which can be used to indicate the progress of a longrunning operation or goal.

The progress bar is styled differently depending on the platform or browser, designed to match
the style of the system. If a custom style is desired, it may instead be preferable to use a Tiled
Background which has its width set depending on the progress.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
IProgressBarInstance script interface.

Layering HTML objects
This object displays using a HTML element rather than drawing in to the canvas. This means its
layering works differently to other objects. To learn more about how to layer HTML objects, see
HTML layers.

Progress bar properties
Value

The initial progress display to show, from 0 to the maximum.
Maximum

The maximum progress value, at which point the progress bar is shown full indicating a
completed operation.
Tooltip

An optional tooltip to show while hovering the mouse over the control.
Initially visibile

Whether the control is initially visible or invisible in the page.

Page 755 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

ID Optional

An optional id attribute for the element in the DOM (Document Object Model). This can be
useful for CSS styling.
Class Optional

An optional class attribute for the element in the DOM (Document Object Model). This can be
useful for CSS styling.

Progress bar conditions
See common conditions for features shared between form control objects.
Compare progress

Compare the currently set progress amount.
On clicked

Triggered when the progress bar control is clicked.

Progress bar actions
See common actions for features shared between form control objects.
Make indeterminate

Set the progress bar in to an indeterminate mode, intended to indicate that it is working, but
the progress is unknown. The display of this mode depends on the browser and platform.
Not all browsers may support an indeterminate mode for progress bars.
Set maximum

Set the maximum progress value for the progress bar.
Set progress

Set the current progress value displayed by the progress bar, from 0 to the maximum.
Set tooltip

Set the tooltip that appears when the mouse hovers over the control.

Progress bar expressions
Maximum

Page 756 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

The currently set maximum progress value.
Progress

The currently set progress amount, if the bar is not in indeterminate mode.

Page 757 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

QR CODE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/qrcode

The QR code object allows displaying a QR code in your project. This is a type of twodimensional barcode that most modern mobile phones are able to conveniently scan, such as to
open a URL without having to type it in.
Note that QR codes have limits on how much data they can represent. If too much text is
specified, the QR code may disappear or turn black. The nature of a QR code means it is best
suited to short snippets of information such as web addresses.
See the QR code maker example project for a demonstration of using QR codes in Construct.

QR code properties
Text

The text to encode within the QR code. This can also be a URL, and most devices will offer to
open a browser if scanning a QR code that contains a URL.
Correction level

QR codes contain redundant additional information for error recovery purposes. This
improves the reliability of scanning the QR code, particularly if the image is in any way
obscured, distorted or damaged. The correction level allows choosing how much additional
error recovery information to include. Higher levels mean more data is stored in the QR code
(and so it will also appear more detailed) but increase the scanning reliability.
Initially visible

Whether the object is initially visible in the layout at runtime.

QR code conditions
The QR code object does not have any of its own conditions. However see Common conditions
for features shared with other objects.

QR code actions
Set text

Change the text encoded within the QR code. This allows dynamically creating a QR code,
such as to represent a unique link for joining a multiplayer game.

Page 758 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set correction level

Change the correction level of the QR code. See the Correction level property above for more
details.

QR code expressions
The QR code object does not have any of its own expressions. However see Common
expressions for features shared with other objects.

Page 759 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SHADOW LIGHT
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/shadow-light

The Shadow light object can render real-time shadows from other objects with the Shadow
caster behavior.
Construct comes with a number of examples of shadow-casting effects. Search for Shadows in
the Example Browser to locate them.

Example of a shadow-casting effect

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
IShadowLightInstance script interface.

Shadow rendering
The Shadow light object renders shadows adjacent to objects with the Shadow caster behavior,
using the object's collision polygon and the relative location of the light. Shadows are filled in
over the background, as opposed to rendering sections of light. The Z order of the Shadow light
object determines whether the shadows appear above or below other objects.
The light can be set to have a radius. If the radius is 0, it acts like a point source, and shadows
have hard edges. If the radius is larger, it accurately renders penumbras (the transition from
lightness to darkness) at the edges of shadows. However in this mode the light height is ignored
and all shadows extend off the screen.

Shadow limitations
Due to the shadow rendering algorithm, there are a couple of limitations:
The shadow casters can only use convex collision polygons. Shadows will not render
correctly if they use concave polygons. If you need a concave shape, this can always be

Page 760 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

achieved by placing multiple shadow caster objects next to each other to compose a
concave shape out of convex parts.
Antumbras (beyond where the umbra converges to a point) are not rendered. To avoid the
umbra converging to a point on-screen, avoid using shadow casters smaller than the light
radius. Stick to large shadow casters and a small light radius.
When using a light radius, avoid placing the light very close to or directly over a shadow
caster. Shadows can fail to render correctly in these circumstances.

Tags
By default, all shadow lights cast shadows off all shadow casters. In some cases it is desirable
to only have certain shadow lights cast shadows off certain shadow caster objects. Each
shadow light object can be assigned a tag, and the Cast from property set to only cast shadows
from that object off shadow caster behaviors with the same (or different) tags.

Shadow light properties
Light height

The height of the light, used with the shadow caster object heights to calculate the length of
shadow to cast. This property only has an effect if the Light radius is 0, otherwise shadows
always extend offscreen.
Light radius

The radius of the light. If the radius is 0, the light acts like a point source and shadows are
hard-edged. If the radius is larger the object will render penumbras at the edges of shadows.
The larger the radius, the wider the penumbras will be. For correct rendering avoid using a
large radius, and especially avoid making the radius larger than any of the shadow caster
objects. If the radius is not 0, the light height is ignored and shadows always extend
offscreen.
Cast from

Which shadow caster objects to render shadows for from this object. The options are:
All: every shadow caster object will get a shadow rendered for this light.
Same tag: shadows will only be rendered for shadow casters with the same Tag
property.
Different tag: shadows will only be rendered for shadow casters with a different Tag
property.

Page 761 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Tag

Used to determine which shadow casters to render shadows for, depending on the Cast from
mode. If Cast from is set to All, the tag is ignored.
Preview Paid plans only

Enable to run a preview of the shadow casting effect directly in the Layout View.

Shadow light conditions
The Shadow light object does not have any of its own conditions.

Shadow light actions
Set cast from
Set light height
Set tag

Set the corresponding object properties. For more information see Shadow light properties.
Set light position

Sets the position in the layout from which shadows are cast from.
Note that using the normal Set position action will also update the light position.
However the Shadow Light object automatically positions itself in the middle of the
viewport in order to draw over the whole screen. Using Set position to set the light
position in the middle of the viewport may conflict with its automatic positioning, so this
action can be used as a more reliable way to guarantee the light position is placed at the
given location.

Set shadow color

Set the color of the shadows that are rendered by the light. The default is black. Use an
expression of the form rgb(red, green, blue) . To set the opacity of the shadows, change
the opacity of the Shadow light object.

Shadow light expressions
LightX
LightY

The X and Y co-ordinates of the light source in the layout. Note a quirk: the light source is
moved using the ordinary Set position actions, but due to the way the object rendering works
Page 762 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

the ordinary X and Y expressions always return a position relative to the viewport instead.
The LightX and LightY expressions return the actual position of the light source.
Tag

Return the current tag of the object.

Page 763 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SHARE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/share

The Share object can bring up the system share feature, allowing the user to share something
via another app.

Scripting
This object has no script interface, because when using JavaScript or TypeScript coding you can
use the browser built-in Web Share API.

Sharing files
The Share plugin can add files to a share, such as images or videos, if Is sharing files supported
is true. The contents of the file is taken from a Binary Data object. Often Construct can provide a
screenshot or video as a local URL. The process to share this as a file is as follows:
1

Use the AJAX object to load the URL in to a Binary Data object. This works like any other AJAX
request, except using the Set response binary action before the request action.

2

Once the AJAX request completes successfully, the data from the URL is in the Binary Data
object.

3

Now you can use the Add file action to attach the contents of the Binary Data object to the next
share. Use the Add file action immediately before the Share action to attach the file to the next
share.

For an example of this, open the 'Taking screenshots' example which demonstrates taking a
canvas snapshot and sharing it as a file.

Share conditions
Is supported

Check whether sharing is supported on the current platform. Sharing will only work if this is
true.
Is sharing files supported

Check whether sharing files with the Add file action is supported on the current platform. The
Add file action will only work if this is true. If it is false but Is supported is still true, then the
Share action can still be used to share text and a URL.
On share completed

Page 764 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Triggered after a share action once the user completes the share process.
This does not necessarily mean anything was shared - this can be triggered if the user
cancels the share.

On share failed

Triggered if a share action is not successfully completed or an error otherwise occurs.

Share actions
Add file

Attach a file to the next share using the contents of a Binary Data object, with a given
filename. This can be used multiple times before a Share action to attach multiple files to be
shared, such as a series of screenshots. The type of the data must also be specified, which
is normally "image/png" for a screenshot, or "video/webm" for a video, but can also be
other types (see MIME Types). For more information see Sharing files above.
Share

Use the system share feature to share some text via another app. Text is the text to share;
Title is an optional title to use (which can be used for other fields, such as the subject of an
email if shared to an email app); and URL is a link to share. All three fields are optional, but at
least one must be provided. If Is sharing files supported is true and any Add file actions were
used before this action, those files are attached to the share.
To avoid annoying the user, browsers may only allow this action in a user input event,
such as On button clicked, On touch start, etc. So to ensure sharing works, only use this
action in a user input trigger.

Request app rating

Display a dialog to the user requesting that they rate your application. Where available this
uses the platform's built-in request app rating dialog, which has predefined text. On Android if
this is not supported it falls back to using a custom system dialog, the content of which is
defined by the parameters to the action. You should request review at an appropriate time,
and infrequently, as so not to frustrate your users. For iOS see Apple's guide on ratings, and
for Android see the Google Play In-App Review API guide.
This action is not guaranteed to show anything to the user. For the best user experience
app stores limit how often the dialog is allowed to appear. Check the linked guides for
more details.

Page 765 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Display store page

Display the native store page (Google Play/App Store) for an application with a given
identifier. Note the app ID can be left empty to use the app ID specified in Project Properties.

Share expressions
The Share object has no expressions.

Page 766 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SLIDER BAR
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/slider-bar

The Slider bar object provides a simple form control allowing the user to pick a value between a
minimum and maximum by moving a slider along a bar.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ISliderBarInstance script interface.

Layering HTML objects
This object displays using a HTML element rather than drawing in to the canvas. This means its
layering works differently to other objects. To learn more about how to layer HTML objects, see
HTML layers.

Slider bar properties
Minimum

The lowest value that can be picked, when the slider is all the way to the left.
Maximum

The highest value that can be picked, when the slider is all the way to the right.
Step

The increment of possible values. For example if the step is 10, then the slider will jump in
units of 10 as it is moved, and only a multiple of 10 can be chosen as a value.
Tooltip

An optional tooltip to show while hovering the mouse over the control.
Initially visibile

Whether the control is initially visible or invisible in the page.
Enabled

Page 767 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual
Enabled

Whether the control is initially enabled and usable, or disabled so that it cannot be interacted
with.
ID Optional

An optional id attribute for the element in the DOM (Document Object Model). This can be
useful for CSS styling.
Class Optional

An optional class attribute for the element in the DOM (Document Object Model). This can be
useful for CSS styling.

Slider bar conditions
See common conditions for features shared between form control objects.
Compare value

Compare the currently chosen value from the slider bar.
On changed

Triggered when the user finishes changing the chosen value on the slider bar. Typically this
only triggers when the user releases a mouse button or touch after moving the slider.
On changing

Triggered repeatedly as the user changes the chosen value on the slider bar. Unlike On
changed this will reflect the current value of the slider as the user is still dragging it.
On clicked

Triggered when the user clicks the slider bar.

Slider bar actions
See common actions for features shared between form control objects.
Set maximum

Set the maximum value that can be chosen from the slider bar.
Set minimum

Set the minimum value that can be chosen from the slider bar.

Page 768 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set step

Set the increment step of the slider bar.
Set tooltip

Set the tooltip that appears when the mouse hovers over the slider bar.
Set value

Set the currently selected value of the slider bar. This must be between the currently set
minimum and maximum values.

Slider bar expressions
Maximum

Return the currently set maximum slider value.
Minimum

Return the currently set minimum slider value.
Step

Return the currently set slider step value (increment).
Value

Return the current value chosen by the user, between the minimum and maximum values.

Page 769 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SPEECH RECOGNITION
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/speechrecognition

The Speech recognition object can transcribe text from the audio of the user talking in to a
microphone.
Speech recognition may not be supported by all browsers or platforms. Use the Supports speech
recongition condition to check if speech synthesis can be used.
Starting speech recognition requires access to the user's microphone, which normally
requires a permission prompt for security reasons. To avoid annoying the user, the
permission prompt may also only be allowed to start in a user input trigger, such as On
button clicked or On touch started.

Scripting
This object has no script interface, because when using JavaScript or TypeScript coding you can
use the browser built-in Web Speech API.

Speech recognition conditions
Is recognising speech

True if a speech recognition request has been approved, and speech input through a
microphone is actively being recognised.
On end

Triggered after the Stop speech recognition action, or after the user stops speaking in Single
phrase mode speech recognition.
On error

Triggered if there is an error approving speech recognition, or during speech recognition. The
SpeechError expression is set to a string which describes the type of problem, e.g. "notallowed" if permission was declined.
On result

Triggered during active speech recognition when the interim or final transcript has changed.
Use either the FinalTranscript and/or the InterimTranscript expressions to get the updated

Page 770 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

result.
On start

Triggered after Request speech recognition when the user has also approved any prompt for
permission.
Supports speech recognition

True if the current browser or platform supports speech recognition. If false, none of the
speech recognition features of the object will work.

Speech recognition actions
Request speech recognition

If Supports speech recognition is true, initiates speech recognition. Usually a permission
prompt will appear asking the user if they want to allow the page to use their microphone
input. The user must approve the permission prompt before On start triggers. If there is a
problem or permission is denied, On error is triggered.
Language specifies the spoken language to recognize, as an IETF language tag. Use a tag
like en for English, en-US for US English, en-GB for British English, and so on.
Mode can be continuous, which keeps recognising speech until the page is closed or the
Stop speech recognition is used; or single phrase, which recognises speech until the user
stops talking, then automatically stops speech recognition and triggers On end.
Results can be Interim to allow interim (unconfirmed) results which can change, accessed by
the InterimTranscript expression; or Final to only allow confirmed final results of speech
recognition to be returned which will not change, accessed by the FinalTranscript expression.
Stop speech recognition

If speech recognition is currently active, ends the speech recognition. On end will trigger.

Speech recognition expressions
FinalTranscript

If speech recognition is active, returns the final transcript of confirmed results. This does not
change, other than to add newly spoken words which have also been confirmed.
InterimTranscript

If speech recognition is active, returns the interim transcript of results. The Request speech
recognition action must have specified Interim for the Results parameter. The text of this
expression can change, as the speech recognition engine uses the sound input in real-time
to refine the results and correct any misinterpreted words. Once the user has spoken far

Page 771 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

enough for the speech recognition engine to be confident of a final result, the word will
disappear from InterimTranscript and be appended to FinalTranscript.
SpeechError

In On speech recognition error, contains a string which identifies the type of error. Possible
values are: "no-speech" , "aborted" , "audio-capture" , "network" , "not-allowed" ,
"service-not-allowed" , "bad-grammar" , or "language-not-supported" . The most common
errors are "not-allowed" if the user declined the permission prompt; "audio-capture" if no
microphone is present; or "network" if the speech recognition is implemented by a remote
server over the Internet which is currently unavailable.

Page 772 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SPEECH SYNTHESIS
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/speechsynthesis

The Speech synthesis object can automatically speak some text using a synthetic voice, also
known as text-to-speech (TTS).
Speech synthesis may not be supported by all browsers or platforms. Use the Supports speech
synthesis condition to check if speech synthesis can be used.
Starting speech synthesis is treated similarly to audio playback by some browsers. This
means in order to avoid annoying the user it may not be able to autoplay on startup. It may
also only be allowed to start in a user input trigger, such as On button clicked or On touch
started.

Scripting
This object has no script interface, because when using JavaScript or TypeScript coding you can
use the browser built-in Web Speech API.

Speech synthesis conditions
Is speaking

True if the speech synthesis engine is currently reading out some text.
On speech ended

Triggered when the speech started by Speak text finishes being read out.
On speech error

Triggered if an error occurs during speech synthesis.
Supports speech synthesis

True if the current browser/platform supports speech synthesis, so the Speak text action can
be used

Speech synthesis actions
Pause speaking

Page 773 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Resume speaking

Pause or resume text being read out by speech synthesis from the Speak text action.
Speak text

Read out some text using speech synthesis. The language, volume, rate and pitch of the
voice that reads out the text can be customised. The Voice URI can be used to select a
different kind of voice (e.g. male vs. female) from a list of the supported voices, if any
alternatives are available. The list of possible voices can be retrieved using the VoiceCount
and VoiceURIAt expressions.
Stop speaking

Stop reading out text from a previous Speak text action. The speech cannot be resumed.

Speech synthesis expressions
VoiceCount

Return the number of voices available for use with speech synthesis.
VoiceLangAt(index)
VoiceNameAt(index)
VoiceURIAt(index)

Return the language, name, or URI of the voice at the given zero-based index. This can be
used to show the user a list of possible voices to choose. To select a different voice, pass the
appropriate voice URI to the Speak text action.

Page 774 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SPRITE
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/sprite

The Sprite object is an animatable image that appears in the project. It is one of the most
important objects for most Construct projects. It is used to make most visual elements in a
project, such as the player, enemies, projectiles, explosions and non-tiling scenery. (Tiled scenery
is much better done with the Tiled Background object.)
If a Sprite has a single animation with a single frame, it just shows an image without animating.
However, multiple animations can be added to Sprite objects with the Animations editor.
All instances of Sprite objects share their animations. In other words, there is a single set of
images comprising the animations which belongs to the object type, and these images are
referenced by instances.
Sprites can have effects applied. For more information, see Effects.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ISpriteInstance script interface.

Sprite properties
Animations

Click the Edit link to open the Animations editor for the object. All instances of the object type
share a single set of animations.
Size

Click the Make 1:1 link to size the selection at original size (100%). This makes the width and
height of the object the same as its first animation frame image.
Initially visibile

Set whether the object is shown (visible) or hidden (invisible) when the layout starts.
Initial animation

Set the initially displaying animation.
Initial frame

Page 775 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set the initially displaying animation frame from the object's initial animation. This is a zerobased index, so the first frame is 0.
Enable collisions

Enable or disable collisions for the object. Disabling collisions means no collision events will
register for the object nor will any behaviors on the object register collisions with solids or
jump-thrus. Disabling collisions does not improve performance unless there are some events
or behaviors that test collisions.
Preview Paid plans only

Enable to run a preview of the initial animation directly in the Layout View.

Sprite conditions
For conditions in common to other objects, see Common conditions.
Compare frame

Compare the current animation frame number, which is a zero-based index (the first frame is
0).
Compare frame tag

Compare the current animation frame tag.
Compare speed

Compare the speed of the current animation, in animation frames per second. Animations
which are playing backwards (e.g. with ping-pong animations) have a negative speed.
Is flipped
Is mirrored

True if the object has been flipped or mirrored with the Set flipped or Set mirrored actions.
Is playing

True if a given animation is currently set. Animations are identified by their name (case
insensitive).
On any finished

Triggered when any animation reaches the end. Looping animations do not finish.

Page 776 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On finished

Triggered when a given animation reaches the end. Looping animations do not finish.
Animations are identified by their name (case insensitive).
On frame changed

Triggered whenever the animation switches to another frame while the animation is playing.
Collisions enabled

True if the object's collisions are currently enabled.
On image URL loaded
On image URL failed to load

Triggered when Load image from URL finishes downloading the image and is ready to display
it, or if the load fails.

Sprite actions
For actions common to other objects, see Common actions.
Add/remove animation

Add or remove an animation with the provided animation name. When adding a new
animation, the animation name must be unique, and the new animation will have a single
transparent frame sized 100x100. The last animation cannot be removed, as Sprite objects
must have at least one animation.
Animations are shared between all instances of the same object type, so this action will
affect all instances regardless of which are picked in the conditions.

Add/remove animation frame

Add or remove an animation frame in the animation with the given name. When adding a
new frame, it will be transparent and sized 100x100. The last animation frame cannot be
removed, as an animation must have at least one frame. The Where parameter is the zerobased index, or animation frame tag, of the location to modify, and can be -1 to refer to the
last frame in the animation. When adding an animation frame not at the end, it is inserted
just before the given frame.
Animations are shared between all instances of the same object type, so this action will
affect all instances regardless of which are picked in the conditions.

Page 777 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Set animation

Change the currently playing animation to another animation. Animations are identified by
their name (case insensitive). The new animation can either play from the beginning or from
the same frame number as the last animation was on (current frame).
Note that if the set animation is already playing, this action does nothing, even if set to
play from the beginning. If you intend to restart the animation, use the Start action and
choose from beginning.

Set flipped

Set whether the object image appears vertically flipped or normal. This also affects image
points and the collision polygon. This is a shortcut for inverting the height (a flipped Sprite's
height is a negative size).
Set mirrored

Set whether the object image appears horizontally mirrored or normal. This is useful for
platform games. Mirroring also affects image points and the collision polygon. This is a
shortcut for inverting the width (a mirrored Sprite's width is a negative size).
Set frame

Set the current animation frame that is showing, either by its zero-based index, or a string of
the animation frame tag. If a tag is provided and there are multiple animation frames with
the same tag, then it will use the first one. After this action the animation will continue to play
at its current speed.
Set repeat-to frame

Set the frame to return to when looping in the current animation, either by its zero-based
index, or a string of the animation frame tag. This essentially changes the Repeat to property
of the animation in the Animation Editor. It is especially useful when reversing animations,
since the default of repeating to the first frame is no longer suitable. Instead when playing
looping animations in reverse it is more useful to repeat to the last frame of the animation
(so the animation actually repeats, instead of getting stuck on the first frame).
Set speed

Set the playback rate of the current animation, in animation frames per second. Instances
can have different animation speeds. You can also use negative speeds, which causes the
animation to play backwards. Note in this case repeating animations should set the Repeat
to frame at the end of the animation, otherwise by default it repeats to frame 0 (the start of
the animation), causing the animation to stop after playing in reverse.

Page 778 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Start

If the current animation is stopped, start playing the animation again. Playback can either
resume from the current frame, or restart from the beginning.
Stop

Stop the current animation from playing. The object will be left showing the current
animation frame.
Spawn another object

Create a new instance of a given object type. The new instance is created at the current
object's position and also set to the same angle. The created object can be on any layer
(chosen by its name or its zero-based number), and it can be positioned by an image point
instead of the object's origin (chosen by its name or number). If a Family Paid plans only is
created, a random object type in the family is picked. Tick Create hierarchy when creating the
root object in a hierarchy to automatically create the rest of the scene graph hierarchy with
connections in place. Choose a valid Template name so the new instance is created based
on the template rather than an arbitrary instance.
See Setting up a hierarchy in the Layout View manual entry for more information about
hierarchies.

When Create hierarchy is ticked, the additional objects created are also picked. This
means subsequent actions for those objects will only affect the newly created ones.

When using this action with a family a Template name can be used, but will only take
effect if the object type
that is going to be created has that template name, otherwise it will be ignored.

See the Templates manual entry for more information on what templates are and how to
start using them.

Set scale

Sets the width and height to a multiple of the object's original size, similar to zooming the
object proportionally. For example, if the object is 50x100, Set scale to 2 will set its size to
100x200, and Set scale to 0.1 will set its size to 5x10.
Load image from URL

Page 779 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Load an image from a given URL. The current animation frame will be replaced with the
image. It is not shown until the image has finished downloading, and On image URL loaded
triggers. Images loaded from different domains are subject to the same cross-domain
restrictions as AJAX requests - for more information see the section on cross-domain in the
AJAX object. Data URIs can also be passed as an image, e.g. from a canvas snapshot or
webcam image. The Size parameter sets whether the Sprite object will be set to the image
size when it loads, or whether to keep its current size and stretch the image.
Note that as all Sprite instances share the same set of animations and frames, loading
an image will replace the image for all instances of the object type. If you want to
dynamically load images for individual instances, try adding animation frames and
loading a different image in to each frame.

Set collisions enabled

Enable or disable collisions for the object. Disabling collisions means no collision events will
register for the object nor will any behaviors on the object register collisions with solids or
jump-thrus. Disabling collisions does not improve performance unless there are some events
or behaviors that test collisions.
Set solid collision filter

Enable or disable collisions with the Solid behavior according to tags. Specify tags using a
string of space-separated tag names. In Inclusive mode, collisions are only enabled with
solids that match any of the given tags; if no tags are specified, collisions are disabled with
all solids. In Exclusive mode, collisions are disabled with solids that match any of the given
tags; if no tags are specified, collisions are enabled for all solids (the default).

Sprite expressions
For expressions common to other objects, see common expressions.
AnimationFrame

The currently displaying zero-based animation frame number.
AnimationFrameTag

The string tag of the currently displaying animation frame.
AnimationFrameCount

The number of animation frames in the current animation.
AnimationName

Page 780 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

A string containing the name of the currently playing animation.
AnimationSpeed

The current playback rate of the current animation, in animation frames per second. If the
animation is playing backwards (e.g. ping-pong animations), the animation speed is
negative.
OriginalAnimationSpeed

The speed of the current animation as specified in the Animations Editor. This does not
change if the animation speed is altered at runtime. It is useful for setting the animation
speed to a multiplier of the original speed.
ImageWidth
ImageHeight

The original dimensions of the object (its current animation frame image size), in pixels.
Since objects can be stretched at runtime causing the normal Width and Height expressions
to return different values, these can be used to get the original size regardless of the
stretched size.
ImagePointCount

Return the number of image points on the currently displaying animation frame of the object.
The count excludes the origin.

ImagePointX(nameOrIndex)
ImagePointY(nameOrIndex)

Retrieve the position of an image point on the currently displaying animation frame of the
object. You can pass either the zero-based index of the image point, or a string of its name.
When using an index, the origin is excluded, so 0 means the first added image point.

PolyPointCount

Return the number of collision polygon points on the currently displaying animation frame of
the object.
PolyPointXAt(index)
PolyPointYAt(index)

Page 781 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Retrieve the position of a collision polygon point on the currently displaying animation frame
of the object, by its zero-based index.
The first poly point is repeated again at the end (at the index PolyPointCount) since it
makes it easier to iterate through each edge of the collision polygon.

Page 782 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

SPRITE FONT
View online: https://www.construct.net/en/make-games/manuals/construct-3/plugin-reference/sprite-font

The Sprite Font object uses an image to display text. The "sprite font" is the object image, which
contains a grid of every character that can be drawn. By drawing parts of this image in
sequence, strings of text can be rendered. This allows complete artistic control over the
appearance of text, rather than having to choose from existing fonts.

Scripting
When using JavaScript or TypeScript coding, the features of this object can be accessed via the
ISpriteFontInstance script interface.

Comparison with Text object
Both the Sprite Font and Text objects can display text in the project. Typically the Text object
shows monochrome characters from an existing font or web font, which can use a range of
sizes and possibly also bold and italic options. On the other hand Sprite Font uses images for
each character. While this means any kind of artwork can be used for text, notably allowing for
multi-colored text, it has the trade-off that it only really supports one font size and one bold/italic
setting (those that it is drawn with).
Another important difference is that traditional fonts as used by the Text object often have good
support for unicode characters. This allows them to display a wide range of characters, including
many alphabets and character sets from many different languages, as well as emoji. Sprite
Fonts however can only use the characters for which an image has been drawn. It is very
difficult to make a sprite font that covers much of the tens of thousands of possible unicode
characters. If a Sprite Font is set to show some text which contains a character that has not
been drawn, it will simply show an empty space for that character. If the entire string is in a
different language which the sprite font does not cover, nothing will render at all. Bear in mind
that if you allow user-inputted text, such as the player's name, or you wish to translate the
project in future, then Text objects are probably more suitable.

Page 783 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Re-coloring SpriteFonts
SpriteFont objects have a Color property that can be used to conveniently re-color the text (and
the [color] BBCode tag works similarly; see below). This works by applying a color filter, which
works best if the SpriteFont is drawn with white text, since that can be filtered to any other color.
For this reason the default SpriteFont is drawn white. The Color property is set to blue by default
in order to help identify that the color of the SpriteFont is set by this property. So long as the
image is drawn white, the color of the text can be set to any color with this property.

Using BBCode
By default the SpriteFont object allows the use of BBCode, a simple way of marking up text for
formatting. If you don't want such tags to affect the formatting of the text, you can opt-out of it
by unchecking the Enable BBCode property.
BBCode uses "tags" in square brackets to mark the start and end of formatting. For example to
hide a word, wrap it in [hide] and [/hide] , e.g. [hide]Hello[/hide] . Some tags take a
parameter, such as the scale, which is specified after an equals sign in the opening tag, e.g.
[scale=2]Hello[/scale] .
The following tags are supported. Note that due to the fact SpriteFonts render images for text,
the supported BBCode tags differ from those used by the Text object.
[scalex=2]stretch wider[/scalex]
[scaley=2]stretch taller[/scaley]
[scale=2]stretch both axes[/scale]

- the color can be specified in the same way
CSS colors are specified, e.g. hexadecimal, using rgb() , etc. Note that for SpriteFont, the
color is applied as a tint. To ensure you can use any color text, use a SpriteFont with the
characters drawn in a white color.
[color=#ff0000]change text color[/color]

[opacity=50]change text opacity[/opacity]
[hide]invisible text[/hide]

- this is useful for flashing effects, since the text still takes up

the same width while invisible
[background=#ff0000]change background color[/background]

and [offsety=10]offset Y[/offsety] - move text by a
number of pixels on each axis, useful for animated effects
[offsetx=10]offset X[/offsetx]

[tag=mytag]tag a range of text[/tag] , assigns the tag "mytag" to a range of text, which

can then be referred to in events (e.g. the Has tag at position condition, or expressions to get
its size and position). Note see the section Tagged range fragmentation in the Text object
manual entry for more details (as fragmentation works the same for both SpriteFont and
Text objects).

Sprite font properties
Page 784 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Text

The initial text to display.
Sprite font

Click the Edit link to edit the source image that text characters are rendered from. The image
can be any size, but it should fit the characters it contains exactly. Characters start in the
top-left and the sequence moves to the right, wrapping down to the next line when it reaches
the right edge of the image. If the character is narrower than the cell, and you change its
width using Spacing data or the Set character width action, the image should be drawn leftaligned in the cell.
Character width
Character height

The size of each character's cell in the sprite font image. Individual characters can be
displayed with a different width using Spacing data or the Set character width action. In this
case, the character should be drawn left-aligned within its cell.
Character set

A string of characters that describes the sequence of letters in the sprite font image. This is
used to map text to images. While the default starts with the English alphabet, it could be
changed to another language or sequence and the image updated accordingly. Note however
the Sprite Font can only display characters that are in the character set; any characters not in
the character set with a corresponding image will appear as an empty space.
Spacing data

Some data in JSON format that lists the widths of individual characters. This allows
improved text layout by using narrower spaces for narrower characters. The spacing data
also affects the display of the text in the Layout View. The data is an array of pairs. Each pair
is a width, and then a string of all the characters that width applies to. For example the pair
[10, "aeou"] will set the width of the characters a, e, o and u to 10 pixels. The characters
are case-sensitive, allowing you to choose different widths for uppercase characters. You
can also set the width of the space character. Each pair must be listed in an array, e.g.
[[10, "aeou"], [12, "mvw"]] .

Scale

A multiplier to scale the rendered text with, such as 0.5 for half as big or 2 for twice as big.
This can be used to "fake" different font sizes, but remember it's only stretching images; you
may want to draw the font again at a different size instead of using a scale.
Character spacing

Page 785 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

Extra space in pixels to add horizontally between characters.
Line height

Extra space in pixels to add vertically between lines. 0 is the default size, negative values
make lines closer together, and positive values space lines out further apart.
Horizontal alignment

The horizontal alignment of the text within the object bounding rectangle.
Vertical alignment

The vertical alignment of the text within the object bounding box.
Wrapping

Choose how text wraps at the end of a line. Word will wrap entire words separated by spaces
or hyphens. Character will wrap to the next line on any character, even punctuation. CJK
works similarly to Character, but has special handling for Chinese, Japanese and Korean
punctuation characters, intended to ensure punctuation wraps appropriately.
Initially visible

Whether the object is initially visible or invisible when the layout starts.
Origin

Choose the position of the origin relative to its unrotated bounding rectangle.

Sprite font conditions
Compare text

Compare the current text the object is showing.
Has tag at position

Test if there is text with a specific tag at the given position (case insensitive). For example if
the text has the BBcode Hello [tag=mytag]world[/tag] , then testing if the tag "mytag" is at a
given position will check if that position is over just the part of the text that says "world".
Is running typewriter text

True while text is being written out using the Typewriter text action.

Page 786 of 1146

Construct 3 Official Manual

On typewriter text finished

Triggered when text being written out using the Typewriter text action finishes writing out all
the text.

Sprite font actions
Append text

Add some text to the end of the existing text.
Set character spacing
Set line height
Set scale
Set horizontal alignment
Set vertical alignment
Set wrapping

Set the corresponding object properties. For more information, see Sprite font properties.
Set character width

Set the width of certain characters. Normally it is preferable to use the Spacing data property,
since it displays with correct spacing in the Layout View. In this action you can specify
multiple characters at the same time to set their widths simultaneously, including the space
character.
Set text

Replace the current text with a new string.
Typewriter text

Set the text over time by starting with an empty string and gradually adding characters until
the full text is written out, over a duration specified in seconds. Once the full text is written
out, On typewriter text finished triggers. Note using Set text or Append text while text is being
written out will cancel the effect.
You can use a speed in characters per second instead of an overall time by using an
expression like len(Self.PlainText) / 10 for the time. In this case it will write out 10
characters per second regardless of the length of the string.

Finish typewriter
